+++ 
title: "DAP suggests that ALIRAN organises the Sixth Dialogue of Concern on the question of a Constitutional Review Commission on the occasion of the 30th Anniversary of the Malaysian Constitution next year"
date: "1986-06-19"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, at the Subang International Airport before departure for a five-day pre-election political visit to Sarawak on Thursday, 19th June 1986 at 5 a.m._

# DAP suggests that ALIRAN organises the Sixth Dialogue of Concern on the question of a Constitutional Review Commission on the occasion of the 30th Anniversary of the Malaysian Constitution next year

In my five-day pre-election political visit to Sarawak beginning today, I will visit Miri, Bintulu, Sarikei, Sibu and Kuching. The DAP will follow very closely the Oya state by-election in Sarawak, which is a straight fight between the PBB candidate, Wan Madzihi Wan Mahdoz, and the former PBB Assemblyman, Datuk Salleh Jafaruddin, who is openly supported by the former Sarawak Governor and Chief Minister, Tun Rahman Yakub.</u>

The Oya by-election results could have a far-reaching bearing on Sarawak political developments, turning Sarawak into the new political centre-stage in Malaysia.

I welcome the support by Aliran executive committee member, Mustapha Anuar, for the establishment of a Constitutional Review Commission to review the 30-year workings of our Constitution.

I suggest that ALIRAN organises the Sixth Dialogue of Concern of the Informal Movement for Freedom and Justice on the question of organising a convention to establish a Constitutional Review Commission with regard to its influence on parliamentary democracy, doctrine of separation of power, human rights, federalism and the national purpose.

It would be a good idea if eminent Malaysians like Tun Suffian, Tun Hussein Onn, Tan Sri Tan Chee Khoon, and even Tengku Abdul Rahman, be invited to give their views.

On behalf of the Informal Movememt for Freedom and Justice, ALIRAN had organised Dialogues of Concern on corruption, poverty, parliamentary democracy, ISA and ESCAR. A Dialogue of Concern on a Constitutional Review Commission would be most appropriate and fitting at this moment of the country’s political and constitutional development.

I agree with Mustapha Anuar that such a constitutional review is particularly imperative at a time when there are mounting demands for the establishment of an Islamic State, in a multi-racial, multi-religious and multi-¬cultural Malaysia.

Call on eligible voters to register as voters

All eligible but unregistered voters should avail themselves of the current voters’ registration exercise which started on Monday to acquire the right to vote by registering on the electoral register. Although it is not yet certain whether the general elections will be held in early July, this should not prevent a full registration of all eligible voters.

The DAP has appointed DAP Deputy Secretary-General and MP for Kuala Lumpur Bandar, Sdr. Lee Lam Thye, to head the party's national voters’ registration-exercise campaign this year.
 
