+++ 
title: "DAP CEC will meet on 18th July to decide on the question of the United Opposition Front as well as the Party’s Election Manifesto"
date: "1986-07-10"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, in Kota Kinabalu on Thursday, July 10, 1986_

# DAP CEC will meet on 18th July to decide on the question of the United Opposition Front as well as the Party’s Election Manifesto

We have received the proposed declaration for the United Opposition Front as suggested but PAS. But as it contains Sections which run against the very policy and objectives of the DAP, such as the question of an Islamic State and Islamic leadership for any political movement in Malaysia, the matter will be discussed and decided by the DAP CEC on July 18.</u>

The DAP does not really mind who leads the Opposition Front, but for anyone to insist that it must be led by an Islamic leadership is in poor taste, wrong in principle and totally unacceptable.

I understand there is supposed to be another meeting of the opposition parties to decide on the question of an United Opposition Front on 14th July. As the DAP CEC will be meeting only on July 18, I would suggest that any such meeting be held after July 18 so that the DAP can take part.

Any meeting before the DAP CEC Meeting on July 18 will make it pointless for the DAP to participate as the matter has been referred to the CEC for a decision.

While the DAP is prepared to form an electoral pact with PAS to deny the Barisan Nasional its 2/3 majority, the DAP will not compromise on our opposition to the establishment of an Islamic State.

The Malaysian people will be jumping from the ‘frying pan into the fire’ if for the sake of denying the Barisan its 2/3 majority in Parliament, they supported the PAS’ objective of an Islamic State.

The DAP will only agree to the formation of an United Opposition Front with PAS if PAS prepared to openly acknowledge that its concept of an Islamic State is unacceptable to the majority of Malaysians.

While the DAP respects PAS’ objective of an Islamic State, PAS must respect the opposition of the DAP and the majority of Malaysians to its objective of an Islamic State.

Any Opposition gathering is solely to deny the Barisan Nasional its 2/3 Parliamentary majority.
 
