+++ 
title: "DAP motion in Parliament to express appreciation to the Ahmad Nordin BMF Inquiry Committee for its Briefs and Reports which had for the first time thrown light on the enormity of crime, fraud and theft and complexity of the BMF Scandal"
date: "1986-03-15"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Saturday,  March 15, 1986:_

# DAP motion in Parliament to express appreciation to the Ahmad Nordin BMF Inquiry Committee for its Briefs and Reports which had for the first time thrown light on the enormity of crime, fraud and theft and complexity of the BMF Scandal

I have submitted a motion to the Speaker of Parliament, Tan Sri Zahir Ismail, for Parliament to express its appreciation to the three-man Ahmad Nordin BMF Inquiry Committee for its Briefs and Reports which had for the first time thrown light on the enormity of the crime, fraud and theft and complexity of the BMF Scandal.</u>

My motion reads:

“That this House

TAKES NOTE of the three special briefs and the Final Report of the BMF Inquiry Committee into the $2.5 billion Bumiputra Malaysia Finance loans scandal in Hong Kong;

TAKES NOTE of the Government White Paper on ‘Laporan Akhir Jawatankuasa Penyiasat Bumiputra Malaysia Finance Limited, (Hong Kong)’ (Kertas Perintah 16 Tahun 1986);

EXPRESSES its appreciation to the Inquiry Committee, headed by Tan Sri Ahmad Nordin, and comprising Chooi Mun Sou and Ramli Ibrahim, light for the first time on the enormity of the crime, fraud and complexity of the BMF scandal.”

Although the Inquiry Committee was appointed by the Bank Bumiputra Board of Directors at its meeting of 4th January 1984. It was at the directive and decision of the Government of Malaysia, as conveyed to the BBMB Board in a letter dated 4th January 1984 from the Finance Minister, to investigate the BMF scandal.

The entire terms of reference of the Inquiry Committee was decided by the Government and communicated to the BBMB. In fact, the BBMB Board was instructed by the Government to meet on 4th January 1984 for this specific purpose.

With this as a background, it is only right that MPs should express their appreciation for the two-year investigations by the Inquiry Committee, as it has for the first time let light into the BMF scandal, to give Malaysians a picture of the monstrosity of the crimes of theft, breach of trust and fraud perpetrated on the Malaysian taxpayers from July 1979 to October 1983 for over four years.

Although Barisan Nasional MPs may not fully agree with some of the recommendations and findings of the Inquiry Committee, this should not prevent all MPs to stand as one to express Parliament’s appreciation and gratitude for their work.

Tan Sri Ahmad Nordin, Chooi Mun Sou and Ramli Ibrahim had spent two years not just doing Bank Bumiputra bidding. They were clearly performing precious ‘National Service’, for their brief concerned not only just one bank, but the interests of the entire Malaysian nation and people.

I hope the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, would agree to allocated time for debate and adoption of my motion, unless the Government and Barisan MPs are so small-minded that they would even grudge the Inquiry Committee the gesture of appreciation and thanks. I would even hope that a Barisan MP (preferably an UMNO MP) would de prepared to second my motion.

DAP calls for the immediate release of the Fifth Malaysia Plan to MPs to study before the Parliamentary debate on Friday, 21st March 1986

Although the Parliamentary debate on the Fifth Malaysia Plan will begin on Friday, 21st March 1986, starting with the motion for its adoption by the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, MPs had not been given copies of the Plan yet.

The Government takes years to prepare for the Fifth Malaysia Plan but give MPs a handful of days to read, understand and to intelligently debate the Fifth Malaysia Plan. This is not only a insult to Parliament, and shows the government contempt for Parliament. Barisan Nasional MPs may be yes-man who will put up their hands to vote and support the Government regardless of the merit of any proposal, motion, bill, but Opposition MPs are not so mindless as to be unthinking yes-man in Parliament.

I call on the Government to immediately release the Fifth Malaysia Plan to MPs and to give MPs at least a clear week to study and consult opinions and views before the Parliament debate. This means that the debate on the Fifth Malaysia Plan should not begin on 21st March as scheduled, but at earliest, if the Fifth Malaysia Plan is released on Monday, on 24th March 1986.
 
