+++ 
title: "DAP CEC will discuss the Penang Chief Ministership question tomorrow and expect to take an important decision"
date: "1986-08-07"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement in Malacca by DAP Secretary –General, MP for Tanjong and Assemblyman for kampong Kolam, Lim Kit Siang, on August 7, 1986 at 11.30 am_

# DAP CEC will discuss the Penang Chief Ministership question tomorrow and expect to take an important decision

The DAP Central Executive Committee will discuss the Penang Chief Ministership question tomorrow, and is expected to take an important decision.</u>

Penang UMNO has now openly made a bid for the Penang Chief Ministership and want Dr. Lim Chong Eu to be dumped as the Penang Chief Minister.

Penang UMNO state chief, Datuk Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, said yesterday that the time has come for UMNO to be given the opportunity to fill the post of Penang Chief Minister.

This has been echoed by another Penang UMNO leader, UMNO Youth Leader and Education Minister, Anwar Ibrahim.

I want to ask Badawi and Anwar whether they would agree that the time has come for a Chinese to be appointed Deputy Prime Minister?

Both Badawi and Anwar should set the example of being Malaysians, and not think and act as Malays or Malay leaders only. They have a responsibility to all Malaysians, regarded of race.

The DAP reiterate its support for Dr. Lim Chong Eu as Penang Chief Minister, especially as it was Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, the Prime Minister, who persuaded Dr. Lim to re-contest again. I am surprised that Gerakan and MCA seem to be indifferent about the Penang UMNO’s bid for Chief Ministership, when they should be making a stronger stand than the DAP’s.

However, the DAP is prepared to provide leadership to Gerakan and MCA on the Penang Chief Minister question, if they dare not make a clear public stand on the issue.

It will be a disgrace to Malaysia and the Chinese community if Tan Koon Swan is appointed, as Cabinet Minister
	  

It has been reported that the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, is finalizing his Cabinet, and that the MCA President Tan Koon Swan, will be brought into the Cabinet.

It will be a disgrace to Malaysia and the Chinese community of Tan Koon Swan is appointed a Cabinet Minister.

He has been charged with 15 offences involving criminal breach of trust, cheating and fraud in connection with the Pan E1 scandal, let out on the highest bail in history at $ 40 million, and is chiefly responsible for the $ 200 million Multi-Purpose Holdings loss and even the $ 200 million EPF shares loss.

It is also known that he is facing great financial pressure, which is clearly shown by the great difficulty he faces in finding $ 5 million to repay MPH in June.

Tan Koon Swan should not let any public suspicion to arise that he now needs a Ministerial position to protect him from financial problems.

In running away to Gopeng to contest, where the Chinese electorate is in a minority, Tan Koon Swan and his two colleagues, Dr. Ling Liong Sik and Datuk Lee Kim Sai has already brought shame and dishonour to the MCA and the Chinese community.

Tan Koon Swan is supposed to be the ‘economic wizard’ to save the Malaysian Chinese, but he cannot save the Malaysian by entering the Cabinet with 15 charges of CBT, cheating and fraud round his neck.

He should clear himself of the 15 charges before entering the Cabinet. For the honour, dignity and self-respect of the Malaysian Chinese, Tan Koon Swan should not accept any Cabinet post even if he is offered one by Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed.

DAP calls for the freeze of appointment of Senators until the role, purpose and function of Senate is reviewed																				  

During the elect on campaign, Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, said that the Senate is a useless chamber, and that the Government does not listen to Senators much.

The DAP calls for the freeze of appointment of Senators until the role, purpose and function of Senate is reviewed.

As it is, the Malaysian public has been wasting great amount of public funds paying the Senators and the upkeep of the Senate for 29 years which the Prime Minister has said is utterly irrelevant.

If the Senate cannot be reformed, then the government should consider abolishing the Senate which will at least save public funds, and help out the country at this period of economic recession and crisis.

There is a provision in the Constitution to provide for an elected Senate. The time has come to implement this provision, so that Senators are elected by the people, instead of being appointed by the Barisan Nasional Government.

Another reform for the Senate is to allocate the appointment of certain number of Senators according to the votes each party received during the general elections. For instance, as the DAP has won 20 per cent of the national vote, it should be allocated 20 per cent of the Senate seats from amongst those which are currently being used as ‘political appointments’ by Barisan Nasional. The balance of the Senate seats should of course be reserved to look after minorities or special interest groups as provided for by the Constitution. 
 
