+++ 
title: "DAP Central Execution Committee to meet on 18th July to decide on the question of United Opposition Front and the party’s election manifesto"
date: "1986-07-10"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, at the Kota Kinabalu Airport on Thursday, 10.7.1986 at 8.30 am_

# DAP Central Execution Committee to meet on 18th July to decide on the question of United Opposition Front and the party’s election manifesto

The DAP Central Execution Committee will meet on July 18 to decide on the question of United Opposition Front as well as on the party’s election manifesto.</u>

We have received the proposed Declaration for the United Opposition Front as suggested by the PAS, but as it contained sections which run against the very policy and objective of the DAP, such as the question of Islamic State and Islamic leadership for any political movement in Malaysia, the matter will be discussed and decided by the DAP Central Execution Committee at its July 18 meeting.

The DAP does not really mind who leads the United Opposition Front, but for anyone to insist that it must be led by an Islamic leadership is in bad taste, and unacceptable.

I understand that there is supposed to be another meeting of Opposition parties to decide on the question of an United Opposition Front on July 14. As the DAP Central Execution Committee will be meeting only on July 18, I would suggest that any such meeting be held after July 18, so that the DAP can take part.

Any meeting before the DAP CEC meeting on July 18 will make it purposeless for the DAP to participate, as the matter has been referred to the DAP CEC on July 18.

While the DAP is prepared to form an electoral pact with PSA to deny the Barisan Nasional its two-thirds parliamentary majority, the DAP will not compromise on our opposition to the establishment of an Islamic State.

The Malaysian people will be jumping from the frying pan into the fire, if, for the sake of denying Barisan Nasional two-thirds majority in Parliamentary, they supported the PAS objective of an Islamic State.

The DAP will only agree to the formation of an united opposition front with PAS if PAS is prepared to openly acknowledge and accept that its concept of an Islamic State is unacceptable to majority of Malaysians.

While DAP respects the PAS’ objective of an Islamic State, Pas must respect of an Islamic State. Any opposition gathering is solely to deny Barisan Nasional two-thirds parliamentary majority.

DAP calls on Philippines President, Cory Aquino, to formally renounce Filipino claim to Sabah instead of allowing the claim to sour Malaysia-Filipino relations. 

The Philippines Constitutional Commission, appointed by Filipino President, Cory Aquino, had decided to propose an amendment to the Philippines Constitution which would keep the Filipino claim to Sabah alive.

This is very short-sighted, and the DAP calls on Cory Aquino to formally renounce Filipino claim to Sabah instead of allowing the claim to sour Malaysia-Filipino relations.

The people of Sabah have a lot of grievances, but they would not allow Sabah to become part of the Philippines. Sabahans have regarded themselves as an integral part of Malaysia, and this is why they should stand firm to exercise their democratic rights in the country.
DAP sends strong protest to Dr.Mahathir at the inconsequential charging of 37 persons, including some political leaders, for unlawful assembly for the March anarchy in Sabah

From my two-day visit to Kota Kinablau and Labuan so far, I can perceive that Sabahans are very dissatisfied and even angry that the Attorney-General’s Chambers is charging 37 persons, including certain political leaders, for unlawful assembly in connection with the March anarchy in Sabah in March.

I have therefore today sent a cable to the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr.Mahathir Mohamed, protesting strongly against the inconsequential charge of unlawful assembly against the bomber, arsonists, rioters in Sabah in March.

My cable to the Prime Minister reads:

“TAB Datuk Seri Dr.Mahathir Mohamed,
Prime Minister,
Malaysia.

Urge strong and uncompromising action against conspirators and political leaders responsible for the 12-day anarchy and lawlessness in Sabah in March. Sabahans as well as Malaysians can see that government is not prepared to take firm action against the bomber, arsonists, rioters, as well as the master-minds behind this campaign of fear and violence.

It has been announced that 37 persons would be charged with unlawful assembly, which is an inconsequential charge with the maximum sentence of $500 fine or six months’ jail, and is completely acceptable.

Urge that you direct Attorney-General, Tan Sri Othman Talib, to charge the conspirators and masterminds of the March anarchy in Sabah, where five persons were killed and over $10 million property in Kota Kinabalu destroyed, for the capital offence of treason under Penal Code, which would have a mandatory life imprisonment sentence.
 
