+++ 
title: "Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohammed should resign as Prime Minister if he is not prepared to honour his undertaking that the government would make the BMF final report once Ahmad Nordin accepts responsibility for it"
date: "1986-01-18"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-Genera and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, in Malacca on Saturday, Jan.13.1986:_

# Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohammed should resign as Prime Minister if he is not prepared to honour his undertaking that the government would make the BMF final report once Ahmad Nordin accepts responsibility for it

The Prime Minister's curt refusal to allow Tan Sri Ahmad Nordin and Chooi Mum Sou the authority to release the Ahmad Nordin BKF final report, although they have both fulfilled the Prime Minister's demand that they accept full responsibility for its publication, has dealt a shattering blow to the public confidence in government credibility.</u>
		
What is even more shocking is the very clear threat of government legal action, through Bank Bumiputra, to sue Ton Sri Ahmad Nordin and Chooi Him Sou if they release the BM F final report. I had said in my various public statements that I could not envisage anyone initiating litigation proceedings on the publication of the BMF final report, except probably the government and Bank Bumiputra'.
		
The Prime Minister has now taken a completely diametrically opposite stand on the BMF final report and its publication. From his earlier public stand that the government has nothing to hide, and that the government would have no objection to the full publication of the BMF final report if somebody would except responsibility for the libel and other litigation consequences of its publication, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, has become the chief protagonist against the publication of the BMF final report, threatening Tan Sir Ahmad Nordin rind Chooi Mun Sou with all sorts of dire consequences if they take up his earlier challenge to be responsible for the report's publication.
		
Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed said in his reply to the memorandum from Tan Sri Ahmad Nordin and Chooi Mun Sou that the government would only make public the BMF final report if it is satisfied that it is reasonably safe. Malaysians want to know 'safe’ for who? for the Prime Minister? Barisan Nasional? The right of the Malaysian people to hold the government to full public accountability for the stewardship of public funds and exercise of public trust seem to be completely repudiated by the present government.
		
No amount of words, arguments or threats could alter the fact that the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, had publicly committed the government to make the BMF final report public, provided 'somebody’ is prepared to bear responsibility for its publication.
		
Now that this 'somebody' in the persons of Tan Sri Ahmad Nordin and Chooi Mun Sou had declared their readiness to bear this consequence, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed could not back out of his word without bringing dishonour and disrepute to the government and the nation.
		
The DAP calls on the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, to resign as Prime Minister of Malaysia if he is not prepared to honour his word that the government would make public the Biff final report once somebody is prepared to accept responsibility for its publication.

MPMT plan to move central market to Bukit Beruang should be completely scrapped 

Last night, DAP Malacca State leaders, including DAP Assemblymen for Durian Daun, Sdr.Lai Keun Ban and I, had a dialogue with Central Market stallholders and hawkers on the MPMT’s plan to removal the Malacca central market to Bukit Beruang.
Democratic Action Party
		
The MPMT's proposal to move central-market to Bukit Beruang in a few years' time is the most stupid decision to have been taken by the MPMT Councillors, and everyone of them should be thoroughly ashamed of themselves for being a party to such a decision - in particular the MCA and Gerakan Councillors, especially Ng Peng Huay and Can Boon Leong.
		
While the idea of a modern market for Malacca town in keepkng with urban changes and expansion is a good one, and will get public support, the proposal to move the central market to Bukit Beruang could rank as the  ‘Silliest decision of the year.’
		
Other towns have also come out with new central  market proposals, but only Malacca Municipal Council have come out with the  proposal to virtually site the central market outside Malacca town that it could not possibly become the central market of Malacca at all.
		
Probably, in order to help sell the Bukit Beruang Central Market idea, the MPMT proposes the temporary shifting of the Central Market to former Jalan Kilang abbatoir.
		
The MPMT must formally and immediately cancel its Bukig Beruang Central Market proposal,    Secondly, the MPMT must convince the Central market stallholders and hawkers that  they have a firm plan for new  Malacca central market, and not some vague notions, before they could ask the present central market stallholders and hawkers to move elsewhere - whether  temporarily or permanently.
		
The MPMT should either build a new central market in the present site after redevelopment, or build a new central market in the town area, as in Jalan Kilang abbatoir site.  But all discussions and negotiations between the market representatives and stallholders and the MPMT must be on the pre-condition that the Bukit Berang central market idea is killed altogether.
		
This is what the MCA and Gerakan Councillors should do at the next MPMT Council meeting, to formally propose and adopt a resolution to kill the Bukit Berang central market proposal once and for all! If the MCA and Gerakan councillors cannot do this, then they should be required to appear before a meeting of all central market stallholders and hawkers to explain their utter irresponsibility and uselessness!
 
