+++ 
title: "DAP declared Johore as’ black area’ state for illegal Indonesia immigrants and launches a month0long demonstration in Johore to demand government action to clean the state of illegal Indons"
date: "1987-09-27"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung. Lim Kit Siang, at Johore DAP State and demonstration against illegal Indonesia immigrants in Kulai on Sunday, 27.9.1987_

# DAP declared Johore as’ black area’ state for illegal Indonesia immigrants and launches a month0long demonstration in Johore to demand government action to clean the state of illegal Indons.

Last week, a 19 year old youth in Pekan Nenas was killed by illegal Indonesia immigrants, the latest in a long list of victims of illegal Indonesia immigrants in Malaysia.</u>

Five years ago, when there had been killings by illegal Indonesia immigrants in Tongkang Pechah, Batu Pahat and Yong Peng, the DAP launched a campaign against the illegal Indonesia immigrants to protect the life, property and rights of Malaysian, but this did not get much public response. Even the MCA which is supposed to protect the rights of the people, where not interested, for there are MCA people who are involved in the illegal traffic of bringing in illegal Indonesia immigrants.

The problem of the million-strong illegal Indonesia immigrants in Malaysia had been a curse to Malaysians for over 10 years, causing cruel crimes, economic problems, as well long-term threat to the stability and harmony of Malaysia.

The government does not have the interest or will to deal firmly with the problem of illegal Indonesia immigrants, as they did in 1979 in dealing with Vietnamese refugees.

The time has come for the people to tell the Malaysian government, as well as the Indonesia Government, that they cannot tolerate any more the problems created by illegal Indonesia immigrants.

The DAP officially declare Johore a ‘black area’ state for illegal Indonesia immigrants, and will from today, launch a month-long campaign of protect, marches, and demonstrations to mobilise public opinion against illegal Indonesia immigrants.

Both the Malaysian and Indonesia Governments must be made to understand the depth and strength of the people’s feelings on this issue, and that they will not rest until the government take firm actions to protect Malaysians from illegal Indonesia immigrants.

It is no use the government announcing the arrest of 200 or 30 illegal immigrants, when public anger in aroused by another crime and outrage, when these 200 or 300 illegal immigrants will return to Malaysia the very next day, with even more illegal Indons!

The Malaysia Government should also demand that the Indonesia Government compensate Malaysian families who had suffered from the criminal activities of illegal Indonesia immigrants. 

Today’s demonstration in kulai, and the demonstration in Pekan Nenas, marks the start of the DAP’s month-long campaign of protest, and demonstrations in Johore against illegal Indonesia immigrants. The campaign will be headed by Johore DAP State Chairman and Assemblyman for Bandar Maharani, Sdr. S.K.Song, and details of the full month-long programme of protest and demonstrations would be announced shortly. This month-long protest campaign will be fully supported by the DAO 1990s 
 
