+++ 
title: "DAP tables motion in Parliamentary to endorse the signing of the peace agreement with the CPM and to take the first steps to restore democratic freedoms and human rights removed during the 41 – year CPM armed struggle"
date: "1989-11-30"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary – General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Peteling Jaya on Thursday, 90. 11. 1989:_

# DAP tables motion in Parliamentary to endorse the signing of the peace agreement with the CPM and to take the first steps to restore democratic freedoms and human rights removed during the 41 – year CPM armed struggle

Now that the Cabinet had yesterday endorsed the signing of an agreement with the Communist Party of Malay in the interest of the country’s security, peace, stability and prosperity, the next step is for Parliament to give ratification to the agreement to be signed in Haadyai on Saturday, Dec. 2.</u>

I have today submitted notice to the Speaker of Dewan Rakyat, Tan Sri Zahir Ismail, that I would be moving a motion at the end of the current budget meeting for parliament to endorse the agreement with CPM, and the democratic freedoms and human rights which were removed to fight the 41 – year – old CPM armed struggle.

The motion that I have submitted reads:

“That this House

ENDORSES the government signed by the Malaysian Government with the Thai Government and the Communist Party of Malay (CPM) in Haaydai, Thailand on 2nd December 1989 to end the 41 year – old armed struggle of the CPM;

RESOLVES

(i)	that Malaysians should be restored the democratic freedoms and human rights which were removed or curtailed because of the 41 year – old CPM armed struggle;

(ii)	the establishment of an all – Party Parliamentary Committee to recommend the amendment and repeal of all laws and powers which had restricted and conscribed the fundamental liberties guaranteed in the Malaysian Constitution because of the 41 year – old CPM armed struggle;

(iii)	to annul the four Proclamations of Emergency dated 3rd September 1964, 14th September 1966 (applicable only to Sarawak), 15th May 1969 and 8th November 1977 (applicable only to Kelantan).”

The signing of the Haadyai agreement for the laying down of arms by the CPM should mark a new era of greater democratic freedoms and human rights for call Malaysians. This is after all, what the battle against the CPM armed struggle had been about.

The Singapore Home Minister, Professor Jayakumar, told the Singapore Parliament yesterday that Singapore would abolish its Internal Security Act only when Malaysi has abolished ISA.

Malaysia should not take a similar position, namely that Malaysia would abolish the ISA only of Singapore has abolish the ISA, or it would be an unbreakable circle. The DAP calls for the repeal of the ISA in Malaysia to end the repressive ISA laws, not only in Malaysia, but also in Singapore.

The people in East Europe and other parts of the world are proving that freedom and liberty are human rights which no government can suppress permanently, if the Poles, Hungarians, East Germans, Czechs and even Russians, can I look forward to new freedoms and democratic rights, Malaysians are entitled to expect greater democratic freedoms and human rights, especially after the conclusion of the agreement for the CPM to lay down its arms and the Kuala Lumpur CHOGM Communique with its emphasis on democratic processes and human rights in all Commonwealth countries.

I will write to the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, to ask for time to be allocated on the last two days of Parliament on December 14 and 15 for debate on this important motion.
 
