+++ 
title: "Liong Sik behaving true to character when he dared not accept my counter-challenge to a public debate on his allegations against me"
date: "1990-09-19"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Wednesday, Sept.19, 1990 at 11.30 am_

# Liong Sik behaving true to character when he dared not accept my counter-challenge to a public debate on his allegations against me

I had accurately read the character of the MCA President, Datuk Ling Liong Sik, when I issued a counter-challenge to him yesterday to a series of nation-wide debate, starting with seven states of Penang, Perak Kuala Lumpur, Selangor, Negeri Sembilan, Malacca and Johore, on his allegation that I had sold out the Chinese rights and interests in my eagerness to become Penang Chief Minister.</u>

If Liong Sik Had accepted my counter-challenge to a nation-wide public debate, then I will not be able to continue to say that of all the MCA Presidents in MCA history, Liong Sik has given the DAP the most advantages.

When Liong Sik told the lie and made the wild allegation that I had sold out Chinese rights and interests to create an Islamic State, and challenged me to reply the next day, I had thought for a moment that there was now a new Liong Sik who was prepared for a public debate and argument – and not jut engage in the ‘hit – and – run’ tactics of political hooligans, as he had done in the past.

 However, Liong Sik had acted true to form. On Penang on Monday, he accused me of selling out the rights of the Chinese in my eagerness to become Penang Chief Minister and challenged me to reply to him the next day. Yesterday, I took up his challenge and replied to him with a counter – challenge to a nation- wide debate on his allegation, and also challenged him to reply to me the next day.

As I had expected, Liong Sik dared not take up the challenge. The MCA President is only good at throwing meaningless challenges at the opposition, and to sun for cover when challenges ere thrown back at him.

Let me teach Liong Sik one elementary rule in politics: If you went to throw challenged at other people, than you must be prepared to accept other people’s challenges. If you dare not accept other people’s challenge, then don’t ever throw any challenge yourself.

I find it shocking that Liong Sik could become the MCA President and yet be so ignorant of such an elementary rule of politics.

Liong Sik is the worst MCA President who had betrayed the rights and interests of 540,000 MCA members, the Malaysia Chinese as well as the Malaysian people as a whole 

Let me tell Liong Sik that my challenge to him to a series of public debate nation-wide on his allegations against me still stands, and he could take it up whenever he plucks up sufficient courage and conviction to do so.

Liong Sik has made his allegation against me, which he dare not stand up publicly to defend and justify in a series of nation-wide debates.

I am now seeking my allegation against Liong Sik, which I will defend anywhere throughout the country should Liong Sik dare to challenge me to a series of nation-wide public debate.

My allegation against Liong Sik is that he is the worst MCA President in the entire MCA history, and that he had betrayed not only the rights and interests of the 540,000 MCA members, but also the Malaysian Chinese as well as the Malaysian people as a whole.

I further challenge Liong Sik to reply tomorrow.

As Lee Kim Sai has asked for proof to substantiate my earlier statement that of all the MCA Presidents, Lionf Sik has given the most advantages to DAPO, the DAP National Publicity Bureau is compiling a full catalogue of all the proofs, and when ready, I will invite Kin Sai to a meeting or dinner to show him the list.

Alternatively, I will also oblige if he prefers that I make the whole lit public to the press first.
 
