+++ 
title: "DAP to send views on Commonwealth Observer Mission to Commonwealth Secretary-General, Sir Shridath Ramphal"
date: "1990-07-03"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, on arrival in Sibu on Tuesday, 3rd July 1990 at 3 p.m._

# DAP to send views on Commonwealth Observer Mission to Commonwealth Secretary-General, Sir Shridath Ramphal

DAP will send our view to the Commonwealth Secretary-General, Sir Shridath Ramphal, on the appointment, functions and role of the Commonwealth Observer Mission to Malaysia for the next general elections. </u>

The Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, said yesterday that the Commonwealth Secretariat would decide on the appointment of the Commonwealth Observer Mission. 

It is essential that the Commonwealth Secretary-General, Sir Shridath Ramphal, is fully informed of the views of all political parties, in particular of the Opposition parties, about the Commonwealth Observer Mission with regard to its appointment, membership role and functions, so as to avoid any problem of the acceptability, credibility and legitimacy of the Mission when it is constituted. 

If necessary, I am prepared to meet the Commonwealth Secretary-General, Sir Shridath Ramphal, to discuss with him the subject of the Commonwealth Observer Mission. 

Before doing so, however, I would prefer to have had a meeting with the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, as well as a meeting with the other Opposition parties on the issue first. 

DAP suggests a Code of Election Conduct and Ethics

DAP suggests that all the political parties agree on a Code of Election Conduct and Ethics for the next general elections, which can serve as a general guideline for the Commonwealth Observer Mission. 

This Code of Election Conduct and Ethics should aim at ensuring that the next general elections is fair, free, clean and honest. 

The Barisan Nasional government, and in particular, the Prime Minister, should set a good example of clean and ethical conduct for the next general elections. 

For instance, there should be a consensus that three months before the general elections, the Prime Minister and Barisan Nasional Ministers, Menteri-Menteri Besar and Chief Ministers, should not go round the country using government funds to distribute tractors, bicycles, outboard motors, for this is clearly using public funds for the advantage of the ruling parties – which is unethical and gross abuse of powers.

The Code of Election Conduct and Ethics should seek to wipe out the Politics of Money and the Politics of Corruption in the next general elections. 

 
