+++ 
title: "Kit Siang urges Lam Thye to withdraw his resignation letter and to continue as DAP Federal Territory Chairman"
date: "1990-09-24"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Monday, 24th September 1990:_

# Kit Siang urges Lam Thye to withdraw his resignation letter and to continue as DAP Federal Territory Chairman

I urge Sdr. Lee Lam Thye to withdraw his letter of resignation as Dap Federal Territory Chairman.</u>

There is no basis for any accusation or suggestion that Lam Thye not handled the Cheras toll issue properly. There is no doubt that Lam Thye played the most important part in the Cheras Toills issue which resulted in the Cabinet’s announcement of immediate suspension of the Cheras tolls and the release of the five persons detained under the Internal Security Act, including DAP MP for Sungei Besi, Tan Kok Wai.

It will be a great seatback for the DAP and the Opposition Front if Lam Thye steps down as DAP Federal Territory Chairman.

During the dark days of Operation Lalang, when the top party leaders were incarcerated, Lam Thye held the fort brilliantly. The party had publicly put on record its profound appreciation of Lam Thye’s great leadership role during those dark days.

What is even more important, during these darks days of Operation Lalang, Lam Thye spearheaded the historic political initiative of bringing about the co-operation between the DAP and Parti Seamngat 46, which provided the basis for the development of a Two-coalition system in Malaysia today.

I have no doubt that it would be the unanimous desire not only of the DAP members and leaders in the Vederal Territory, but also the people of Federal territory, that Lam Thye should continue to provide the political leadership in the Federal territory.
 
I have had discussions with Lam Thye about his wish to step down as DAP Federal Territory Chairman, and I will continue to dissuade him from stepping down as Chairman of DAP Federal Territory at this most critical juncture of the political development in Malaysia.
 
