+++ 
title: "If Datuk Samy Vellu has removed Vijandran as MIC Secretary-General, why is he opposed to removing Vijandran as Deputy Speaker and Barisan Nasional MP?"
date: "1990-01-25"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Thursday, January 25,1990 :_

# If Datuk Samy Vellu has removed Vijandran as MIC Secretary-General, why is he opposed to removing Vijandran as Deputy Speaker and Barisan Nasional MP?

MIC President, Datuk Samy Vellu, has announced the appointment of Datuk G.Vadiveloo as the new MIC Secretary-General to replace D.P.Vijandran.</u>

It is clear to all Malaysians that D.P.Vijandran has been removed as MIC Secretary-General because of the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal. Datuk Samy Vellu’s explanation that there is no provision in the MIC Constitution for an Acting- Secretary-General is most ridiculous, and Datuk Samy Vellu is smart enough to know that nobody will accept his explanation.

Unlawful for MIC to have two Secretary-General

	Otherwise, MIC will have the ludicrous situation where it has two Secretaries-General, one on leave overseas and another one in the country. Can Datuk Samy Vellu state which section in the MIC Constitution allow for two MIC Secretaries-General? I am sure the Registrar of Societies will be most shocked if the MIC can appoint two Secretaries-General. In fact, so long as Vijandran is regarded as the legal MIC Secretary-General but on leave, all the actions of Vadiveloo as Secretary-General could be challenged as illegal and unlawful on the ground that the MIC Constitution does not provide for two Secretaries-General.

	Vijandran, himself a lawyer, only asks for leave and expects an Acting Secretary-General to be appointed. Vijandran has now the dubious distinction of holding the most dubious positions in Malaysians politics: firstly as Deputy Speaker when Parliament is not meeting; and secondly, as MIC Secretary-General when he is in India on leave, but not when he returns to Malaysia!
	
While Malaysians must be amused by the latest twists-and-turns in the MIC in the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal, the people are more interested to know why Datuk Samy Vellu is still solidly backing Vijandran as Deputy Speaker and Barisan Nasional MP, when he has removed him as MIC Secretary-General?

	Does Datuk Samy Vellu regard the honour, dignity and standing of Parliament and the international image and reputation of Malaysia as of minor and peripheral importance, as compared to the interests of MIC?

	Datuk Samy Vellu and all Cabinet Ministers must be reminded that so long as they allow Vijandran to continue as Deputy Speaker and Barisan MP, and do nothing about the illegal destruction of the eleven Vijandran videotapes and four envelopes of 2,000 photographs by the Attorney-General, Tan Sri Abu Talib, they must be held directly responsible for making Malaysia the laughing stock in the world, with grave and irreparable damage to Malaysia’s international image and reputation.
 
