+++ 
title: "Advice to Ghafar not to comment on things he knows nothing about"
date: "1990-05-12"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement (2) by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Saturday, 12th May 1990 at 12 noon_
				
# Advice to Ghafar not to comment on things he knows nothing about

I want to advise Ghafar Baba, the Deputy Prime Minister, not to comment on things he knows nothing about.</u>

Ghafar said in Cheras yesterday that PAS and the DAP cannot deny that there was some form of co-operation between them.
Ghafar said that their co-operation could be seen from the statement by Semangat 46 president, Tengku Razaleigh Hamzah that the Opposition parties have agreed on the distribution of seats in the coming general elections.

I do not know where Ghafar got his source of information, but as far as the DAP is concerned, we are still in the stage of discussion with Semangat 46 on the Question of distribution of both the Parliamentary and State Assembly seats for the next general elections.

No final agreement has yet been reached between Semangat 46 and DAP on the distribution of seats for the coming general elections.
The draft 1990 Electoral Roll to be put up for public inspection by early June, and the new roll expected to be ready in July								
Yesterday, in a meeting with the Election Commission Secretary, Haji Abdul Rashid Abdul Rahman, in Kuala Lumpur, the DAP delegation was informed that the draft 1990 Electoral Roll revised during the 27-day snap voters’ registration exercise from March 1 to 27, is expected to be put up for public inspection by early June.

The new 1990 Electoral Roll is expected to be produced in July. This means that if general elections are held in August, the new 1990 Electoral Roll would be used.

I have received notice from Parliament summoning a meeting of Dewan Rakyat from June 11 to 22, and the Senate from June 25 to 29.
These developments should effectively rule out a general elections before July.
 
