+++ 
title: "Gerakan President is now the equal of MCA President, as both Party Presidents are proven liars"
date: "1990-04-26"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement (2) by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at DAP PJ Hqrs on Thursday, 26th April 1990 at 11.30 a.m._

# Gerakan President is now the equal of MCA President, as both Party Presidents are proven liars

Gerakan had always wanted to show that it could match the MCA, although the MCA has more Ministers, MPs and Assemblymen, but somehow the Gerakan had not been able to make much of an impression.</u>

Recently, however, the Gerakan has succeeded in catching up with the MCA, and the Gerakan must thank its President, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, for proving that the President of both parties are equals – although it is for the dubious distinction that both are proven liars.

At the “Two Lims meeting’ at the MCA Headquarters on the KSM-MPHB Investment Fund issue on 27th March 1990, Liong Sik categorically denied that three locally-incorporated public-listed companies were interested in buying the strategic block of 19.7 per cent stake in the MPHB held by the 50,398 unitholders.

Liong Sik said that he phoned up the KSM Receiver Khoo Eng Choo, and Khoo Eng Choo said he had been misquoted by the newspapers as he had never said that three companies were interested in buying the 19.7 per cent stake. When pressed by the reporters, Liong Sik tried to shake off the line of questioning by saying that the interest shown by local companies must be with regard to the 28.9 per cent staked owned by KSM which Hume made an unsuccessful bid in April last year, but which was bough by Kamunting Corporation Bhd.

Liong Sik lied on two matters

Liong Sik has however been proved a liar. The Business Times of last Saturday 21/ 4/ 90 carried the following report under the heading ‘3 offers for KSM’s MPHB stake’:

“Mr. Khoo Eng Choo, the receiver of Koperasi Serbaguna Malaysia (KSM) reiterated yesterday that he had received three offers for the co-operative’s 19.7 per cent stake in Multi-Purpose Holdings Bhd (MPHB).

“On a question by MCA President, Datuk Seri Dr. Ling Liong Sik that there were no offers for the stake, Mr. Khoo said: “I am a professional. We were approached by three parties.’

“In a dialogue with Datuk Seri Dr. Ling last month, DAP Secretary-General Lim Kit Siang asked whether it was true that three public-listed companies had expressed an interest in buying the stake and that the former had turned down the offers.

“Datuk Seri Dr. Ling replied that ‘there was no such thing’ as offers from three firms. He said Mr. Khoo had been misquoted.

“Mr. Khoo said yesterday that the three parties did not mention a price for the stake as the matter is still in a state of flux and before the courts.”

This news report has clearly established Liong Sik as a proven liar. He not only lied about three companies interested in the 19.7 per cent stake, he also lied about Khoo Eng Choo being misquoted by the press. But less than a month after the MCA Headquarters meeting which proved Liong Sik a liar, Gerakan President, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik has also joined Liong Sik’s company.

On 22nd April, at the Selangor Gerakan Assembly in Petaling Jaya, Keng Yaik alleged that he had evidence of secret meetings between DAP and PAS in Jakarta. This was reiterated by Keng Yaik’s Political Secretary, Dr. Kang Chin Seng, who said two days later that Keng Yaik had all the proof but would only produce them “slowly, step by step, at the right moment.”

Keng Yaik should not be so naïve to think the whole episode would blow away if he stayed away from Chan She Shu Yuen on 3rd May

I gave Keng Yaik 48 hours to name the place, date and time to produce proof to substantiate his allegations. Having failed to accept my challenge, I have now named the venue of Chan She Shu Yuen in Kuala Lumpur next Thursday, 3rd May, 1990 at 11 a.m. for Keng Yaik to produce proof.

Keng Yaik’s inability to produce proof within the 48 hours is enough to condemn his as a liar. But I am giving him another chance to produce the proof and I am giving him an extra eight days.

Keng Yaik and his advisers who cooked up these allegations to smear the name of DAP should not be so naïve to think that the whole episode would blow away if they simply stayed away from Chan She Shu Yuen next Thursday!

Chong Eu can continue as Penang Chief Minister without Gerakan, but Gerakan cannot run Penang State Government without Chong Eu

Keng Yaik is facing a great political crisis in Gerakan, but he should not attempt to tell lies about the DAP in an effort to avert the Gerakan crisis from reaching explosion point.

Keng Yaik and his political confidantes in the Gerakan leadership should know by now that their attempt to force Dr. Lim Chong Eu to step down as Penang Chief Minister or be a mere figure head has failed miserably.

Keng Yaik openly humiliated Chong Eu by announcing two Gerakan-designated successors to the post of Penang Chief Minister without the courtesy of first notifying Chong Eu. The Gerakan national leadership also aided and abetted in a public campaign by Gerakan Penang State and local leaders to undermine Chong Eu’s standing and credibility by accusing him of nepotism and gross breach of party discipline.

However, Chong Eu had rallied the open support of the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, the Penang UMNO State Chairman and Education Minister, Anwar Ibrahim, and even the UMNO Youth leader, Datuk Najib Tun Razak, not to mention the MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, all of whom publicly declared their support for Chong Eu as Penang Chief Minister.

Today, Chong Eu has demonstrated to Keng Yaik that he could continue as Penang chief Minister without Gerakan, while Gerakan cannot continue to run the Penang State Government without Chong Eu. Whether Keng Yaik likes it or not, Chong Eu can continue to be Penang Chief Minister just with UMNO and MCA support!

Keng Yaik must have found it most humiliating for Chong Eu to publicly check-mate, outsmart and outwit him, especially at a time when he was going round the the country to officially open the various State Gerakan Assemblies.


To camouflage his acute political embarrassment and humiliation at losing out in the power struggle with Chong Eu, Keng Yaik is trying to distract Gerakan and public attention by concocting the serious allegations of secret meetings between DAP and PAS leaders in Jakarta.

No wonder, Chong Eu never had much respect for Keng Yaik as a leader of a serious political party, for he lacks the necessary depth and gravity essential for a national political leader.
 
