+++ 
title: "Letter to Kim Sai to invite him to dinner in Shangrila Hotel next Wednesday to show him proof that Ling Liong Sik the best MCA President for DAP"
date: "1990-09-22"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, 22nd September 1990:_

# Letter to Kim Sai to invite him to dinner in Shangrila Hotel next Wednesday to show him proof that Ling Liong Sik the best MCA President for DAP

I have today sent an invitation to the MCA Deputy President, Datuk Lee Kim Sai, inviting him to dinner at Shangrila Hotel next Wednesday to show him proof that Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik is the best MCA President for the DAP.

This is because last week, Kim Sai had asked me to produce proof for making such a statement.

My invitation to Kim Sai, which was faxed to the MCA Head-quarters today, reads as follows:

“YB Datuk Lee Kim Sai,								22.9.1990
Deputy President,
MCA.

YB Datuk, 

Invitation to dinner at Shangrila Hotel

I refer to your public request last week asking me to produce proof to substantiate my statement that of all the MCA Presidents, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik is the best President for the DAP.

I am now taking up on your request and hereby invite you to a dinner at Shangrila Hotel next week to show you the proof. In fact, everyday, the proof keeps pilling up – the latest being the scandal of the socalled recognition of nice courses of Tunku Abdul Rahman College announced by the Education Minister, Anwar Ibrahim, on Thursday in circumstances which would not benefit 90 per cent of the students affected.

Please let me know whether you accept my invitation to dinner and proof.

Thank You.


Yours Sincerely,


(Lim Kit Siang)
DAP Secretary-General
 
