+++ 
title: "Dr. Lim Keng Yaik should come to Penang tomorrow to tender two public apologies, one to Dr. Lim Chong Eu and the other to me and seek our forgiveness"
date: "1990-04-29"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Sunday, 29th April 1990:_

# Dr. Lim Keng Yaik should come to Penang tomorrow to tender two public apologies, one to Dr. Lim Chong Eu and the other to me and seek our forgiveness

I read the full press report of what the Gerakan President, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, said at Sri Perdana (the official residence of the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed) the first day of Hari Raya on his lies about the DAP-PAS ‘secret meeting’ in Jakarta, and I feel completely outraged at the lies that a Minister of His Majesty’s Government could tell!</u>

Keng Yaik claims that his ‘reliable source’ was from a high-tanking DAP leader, who told him that the Jakarta ‘secret meeting’ between the DAP and PAS, with DAP represented by DAP National Publicity Secretary and Mp for Seputeh, Liew Ah Kim, and DAPSY National Chairman and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Guan Eng, was on April 16.

Keng Yaik made this serious allegation at the Selangor Gerakan Assembly in Petaling Jaya on April 22, and yet he now says he does not know whether the Jakarta meeting was ever held or not.

In this case, how could Keng Yaik allege that there was a ‘secret meeting’ of DAP and PAS leaders in Jakarta when he declared open the Selangor Gerakan Assembly, and which was given the most extensive coverage by the mass media, including all the three television channels?

Keng Yaik is known as a ‘foolish doctor’. But his lies about the ‘secret meeting’ between DAP and PAS in Jakarta on April 16, 1990, has gone beyond the doings of a ‘foolish doctor’ or even a ‘crazy doctor’, for it is the deed of a person who has no sense of honesty and morality at all – who regard lies as a ordinary cup of tea!

Keng Yaik can bring the phantom ‘high-ranking DAP leader’ to the Chan She Shu Yuen on may 3 to be his proof

Keng Yaik said he would not be present at the Chan She Shu Yuen on Thursday on May 3 at 11 a.m. which I had fixed for him to produce his proof, as it would be a waste of time. Keng Yaik must find cooking up and telling more lies as a more useful pastime!

There can only be one reason why he dare not turn up at Chan She Shu Yuen on May 3, and that is he has absolutely no evidence manufacturing as he tried to over up his original lie.

 Keng Yaik can bring the phantom “high-ranking DAP leader” he claimed was his source, to be his proof, although I am quite positive that this again another figment of his fevered mind. I want to remind Keng Yaik that he would have to face serious consequences if he does not turn up on May 3, for he should not be so naïve to think he could tell such big lies and get away with them.

Kit Siang gives Kerk Choo Ting, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon and Dr. Kang Chin Seng 24 hours to dissociate themselves from Keng Yaik’s lies about DAP-PAS ‘secret meeting’ in Jakarta 

I had said that Keng Yaik’s lies about the non-existent Jakarta ‘secret meeting’ between the DAP and PAS on April 16, 1990, must have been concocted by the Gerakan ‘brain-trust’ which comprised the best brains in the Gerakan, namely its Deputy President, Kerk Choo Ting, the Gerakan National Youth Leader, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon and the Director of the Gerakan Publicity Bureau, Dr. Kang Chin Sang.

So far, Choo Ting, Tsu Koon and Chin Sang had not issued any denial. I am a very fair person, unlike Keng Yaik. I am giving Choo Ting, Tsu Koon and Chin Seng 24 hours to dissociate themselves from Keng Yaik’s lies about the secret meeting of DAP and PAS in Jakarta on April 26, 1990.

If after the expiry of this 24-hour deadline, there is no word from Choo Ting, Tsu Koon and Chin Sang, then their silence can only mean admission that they collectively concocted with Keng Yaik the lies about the ‘secret meeting’ between the DAP and PAS in Jakarta on April 16, 1990.

Keng Yaik’s public humiliation of Chong Eu most uncalled for and inexcusable

Keng Yaik resorted to such lies not only to destroy the image and credibility of the DAP, but to distract public attention from his power struggle with the Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Lim Chong Eu.

Keng Yaik wanted to get rid of Chong Eu as Penang Chief Minister or reduce to a mere figurehead, and he decided to do it in a manner where Chong Eu could not mistake his message.

This was why Keng Yaik specially arranged for a Chap Goh Mei dinner to be held in Tanjung on February 9 this year, where he could tell Chong Eu in his face, and in Tanjung constituency, that his time was up, as the Gerakan had designated two successors, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon and Dr. Goh Cheng Teik, to take over the post of Penang Chief Minister.

And to add insult to injury, Keng Yaik said Boey Weng Keat could do as well as Chong Eu, implying that it was not only time for Chong Eu to step down and leave, but that there was nothing great about his capabilities as Penang Chief Minister.

This was why Keng Yaik refused to consult, advise or inform Chong Eu in advance that he was going to announce Dr. Koh Tsu Koon and Dr. Goh Cheng Teik as the two designated successors, and why when Chong Eu was late for the Chap Goh Mei dinner because of another engagement, Keng Yaik refused to speak until Chong Eu was present to be publicly humiliated.

It is understandable that Chong Eu was incensed by Keng Yaik’s crude and cavalier treatment, although all he said the time was the significant remark that Keng Yaik was ‘very brave’ to make such an announcement!

I have my differences with Chong Eu, but I fully agree that Keng Yaik had treated Chong Eu in a most shabby, shameful and disgraceful manner, and his public humiliation of Chong Eu at the Gerakan Tanjung Chap Goh Mei dinner on February 9 is most uncalled for and inexcusable.

Not content with such public humiliation of Chong Eu, Keng Yaik subsequently granted permission and immunity from party discipline to Gerakan State and branch leaders to further humiliate Chong Eu by attacking him for nepotism and anti-party activities, as not paying his party dues!

As Keng Yaik is coming to Penang tomorrow, Keng Yaik should tender two public apologies when he arrives in Penang, one to Dr. Lim Chong Eu, for publicly humiliating him at the Gerakan Tanjong Chap Goh Mei Dinner and the other public apology to me, for his lies about DAP-PAS ‘secret meeting’ in Jakarta and seek our forgiveness.
 
