+++ 
title: "Ling Liong Sik should set an example and announce that he would not contest in next general elections unless he could satisfactorily answer the MCA charges that he is not a ‘clean’ or ‘honest’ political leader"
date: "1990-09-11"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Tuesday, Sept 11, 1990:_

# Ling Liong Sik should set an example and announce that he would not contest in next general elections unless he could satisfactorily answer the MCA charges that he is not a ‘clean’ or ‘honest’ political leader

In the last few days, the MCA President, Datuk Seri Dr. Ling Liong Sik, is in a ‘attacking’ mood. He has been making daily wild attacks on everybody, the DAP, the Semangat 46 and even on the Cheras residents for protesting against the Cheras tolls picturing the people of Cheras as irresponsible law-breakers.</u>

In fact, the biggest law-breaker in Malaysia is none other than Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik himself. According to the allegations made the other MCA leaders, including MCA Ministers, Liong Sik had broken several laws in various business deals, like Multi-Purpose Holdings Bhd., KSM-MPHB Investment Fund, Bolton Finance Co. Pyemas money brokerage firm.

However, up to now, the Anwar Cabinet Committee on Corruption and Malpractices, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Registrar of Companies and Bank Negara had failed to take actions to investigate into the various offence committed by Liong Sik in these various business deals.

On Sunday, Liong Sik told 14th annual general meeting of the Gerakan Belia Bersatu that MCA would field only ‘clean’ candidates in the next general elections. Dr. Ling said that the MCA’s prospective candidate should not be a bankrupt or have a criminal record.

I have publicly gone on record to call on the Anwar Cabinet Committee on Corruption and Malpractices, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Registrar of Companies and Bank Negara to investigate into the various offences committed by Liong Sik in his various business deals.

MCA leaders have during the 13-day abortive Ling-Lee battle for the MCA Presidency in July openly said that Liong Sik is not a ‘clean’ or ‘honest’ political leader.

In view of Liong Sik’s statement two days ago that the MCA would only field clean candidates,, Liong Sik should set the example and announce that he himself would not contest in the next general elections unless he could satisfactorily answer the serious MCA charges that hr id not ‘clean’ or ‘honest’.

He should be prepared to submit himself to a public inquiry whether he had broken several laws in various business deals, and to prove that he is not a law-breaker himself.
 
