+++ 
title: "Lim Kit Siang fixes Chan She Shu Yuen Chan’s Clan Association Selangor/ Federal Territory in Kuala Lumpur next Thursday, 3rd May 1990 at 11 am for Dr. Lim Keng Yaik to produce his proof that DAP had ‘secret meetings’ with PAS."
date: "1990-04-25"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Wednesday, 25th April 1990 at 11.30 am._

# Lim Kit Siang fixes Chan She Shu Yuen Chan’s Clan Association Selangor/ Federal Territory in Kuala Lumpur next Thursday, 3rd May 1990 at 11 am for Dr. Lim Keng Yaik to produce his proof that DAP had ‘secret meetings’ with PAS.

My 48-hour deadline to Gerakan President, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, to name the place, date and time for him to produce evidence to substantiate his allegations last Sunday that the DAP and PAS had ‘secret’ meetings outside the country has expired, and I have not received any word from Keng Yaik that he would accept my challenge.</u>

I am now, as I had stated earlier, naming the place, date and time for Keng Yaik to produce evidence to substantiate his allegations. The venue will be the Chan She Shu Yuan Chan’s Clan Association, Selangor/ Federal Territory, 172, Jalan Petaling, 50,000 Kuala Lumpur next Thursday, 3rd May 1990 at 11 a.m.

The allegations which Keng Yaik are to substantiate with proof are:

1. the ‘secret meeting’ between a DAP Youth leader and a PAS Youth leader in Jakarta;

2. that the DAP and PAS leaders have had several secret meetings;

3. that DAP National Publicity Secretary and MP for Seputeh, Sdr. Liew Ah Kim, and the DAP National Organisation Secretary and Malacca Assemblyman for Durian Daun, Sdr. Kerk Kim Hock, were involved in the arrangements for these ‘secret meetings’ between the DAP and PAS;

4. that PAS Information Chief Subky Latiff was involved in the ‘secret meeting’ with a DAP official in Jakarta;

5. that I had a private ‘closed-door’ meeting with Keng Yaik in 1987 as Keng Yaik had told a Chinese weekly magazine in early April this year that I could not be trusted to keep confidence of the subjects of discussion are not adequate, Kit Siang would accuse me of not being sincere; if he says too much, Kit Siang would use it later to attack him” I never had a private ‘closed-door’ meeting with Keng Yaik in 1987.

Keng Yaik should bring along Kerk Choo Ting, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon and Dr. Kang Chin Seng to the Chan She Shu Yuen date

I will wait for Keng Yaik at Chan She Shu Yuen next Thursday, 3rd May 1990 at 11 a.m. As he had dragged in DAPSY, Ah Kim and Kim Hock, the National DAPSY Chairman, Lim Guan Eng, as well as Liew Ah Kim and Kerk Him Hock will also be present, together with *** Gerakan Assembly on Sunday, but was calculated, premeditated and preplanned probably with other Gerakan leaders, like Gerakan Deputy President, the Gerakan National Youth Leader and his Political Secretary, Keng Yaik should bring along Kerk Choo Ting, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon and Dr. Kang Chin Seng to the Chan She Shu Yuen.

The statement in today’s press by the Political secretary to Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, Dr. Kang Chin Seng, has confirmed my statement that Keng Yaik’s wild allegations were calculated and pre-planned political moves by the top Gerakan leadership.

It is significant that Keng Yaik dare not respond to my challenge to declare within 48 hours that he was going to produce proof, but got his political secretary to issue a political statement instead.

Dr. Kang has compounded Keng Yaik’s outrageous political conduct by claiming that Keng Yaik has all the information and evidence about the ‘secret meetings’ between the DAP and PAS outside the country, and that Keng Yaik would reveal progressively these evidence at the proper time of his choice.

This has reinforced my suspicion that the whole idea of making such irresponsible and baseless allegations about the ‘secret meetings’ between the DAP and PAS outside the country first originated from the Gerakan Think-Tank of Dirty Tricks headed by Dr. Kang.

Dr. Kang Chin Seng may have a Ph.D., but his moral values is inferior to an ordinary worker or farmer

Dr. Kang may hold a Ph.D. qualification, and have read a lot of books, but unfortunately, he has read the wrong books, and have not learnt the basic rules of being a human being, of knowing the difference between right and wrong, moral and immoral, how a decent human being should not lie and must honour truth.

Dr. Kang is the best example of a highly-educated person with a Ph.D. whose moral values is inferior to an ordinary worker or farmer, for Dr. Kang does not know the difference between right and wrong, or have a sense of shame, unlike the laboring classes who may not have received much education.

This is why Dr. Kang could issue such an atrocious statement in the defence of Dr. Lim Keng Yaik in today’s press.

In response to my challenge to Keng Yaik to produce proof of his allegations of the secret meetings between the DAP and PAS outside the country, Dr. Kang said Keng Yaik had the proof, but he would not produce them, and would do so at the time of his choice, ‘by and by.” Dr. Kang said the DAP leaders ‘should not be impatient as the truth would be out eventually.’

A primary school student can tell Dr. Kang, who holds a Ph.D., that this is a dishonest, dishonourable and shameful answer.

Keng Yaik the most corrupt Minister in Malaysia who uses his overseas trips to deposit his corruption money as well as the corruption money of UMNO Ministers in unnumbered Swiss bank accounts?

If this response is acceptable, will Dr. Yang agree that it would be perfectly all right for me to allege that Dr. Lim Keng Yaik is the most corrupt Minister in Malaysia, who uses his overseas trips to deposit his corruption money as well as the corruption money of UMNO Ministers in unnumbered Swiss bank accounts, and when Keng Yaik challenges me to produce the proof, for me to day, ‘I have the proof, which I will chose the right time to progressively reveal. The Gerakan leaders should not be too impatient, for the truth would be out eventually?

Or will it be all right for me to allege that Dr. Lim Keng Yaik had secret talks with Tengku Razaleigh and sent an emissary when I was in detention in Kamunting Detention Centre to work out a secret relationship between the Gerakan and Semangat 46 as well as DAP, and when I am challenged to produce proof, to say, ‘I have the proof, which I will chose the right time to progressively reveal. The Gerakan leaders should not be too impatient, for the truth would be out eventually’?

Once Keng Yaik goes public with such wild, irresponsible and baseless allegations about the DAP and PAS ‘secret meetings’ overseas, he has only two options: Produce the proof or be known throughout the country and the world as a liar.

I am being generous in giving Keng Yaik another eight days, after my 48-hour challenge, for him to produce the evidence.

Dr. Kang wants to distract the whole issue, by issuing a long statement attacking the DAP for wanting to create an Islamic State by working with PAS.

Dr. Kang has nothing original to say, as he is only repeating what MCA leaders, especially the MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, had been saying in the past six weeks.

The DAP has rebutted the charges by Liong Sik that DAP wants to establish an Islamic State and exposed the fallacy and stupidity of these allegations so much so that Liong Sik is now feeling shy about repeating these baseless allegations.

If Dr. Kang thinks he is smarter than Liong Sik, and wants to engage the DAP in an argument on the baseless charge that DAP wants to establish an Islamic State, we are prepared to oblige, on two conditions:

Firstly, after Keng Yaik has produced proof of his allegation of DAP-PAS ‘secret meetings’ outside the country at Chan She Shu Yuen on 3rd May;

Secondly, after Dr. Kang has proved that he is a honest and honourable man, who knows the difference between right and wrong, and has a sense of shame.

Dr. Kang will not be allowed to distract public attention from the central issue at the moment, which is for Keng Yaik to produce proof to substantiate his allegations about DAP-PAS secret meetings outside the country.
 
