+++ 
title: "Call on Keng Yaik to give three reasons why he thinks PAS will win 25 MPs and Dr. Mahathir will lose power in next general elections"
date: "1990-05-24"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in a dialogue with the residents of Tokong Batu on Thursday, 24th May 1990 at 9.30 p.m. during the second day of his visit to Jelutong_

# Call on Keng Yaik to give three reasons why he thinks PAS will win 25 MPs and Dr. Mahathir will lose power in next general elections

At the Penang Gerakan Assembly last Sunday, the Gerakan President, Datuk Lim Keng Yaik, made the astounding prediction that PAS could win 25 Parliamentary seats in the next general elections.</u>

If PAS could win 25 seats, Semangat 46 should have no problem to win some 40 seats. This will leave UMNO Baru with only about 20 MPs in the next general elections.

This means that UMNO Baru and the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, will lose power in the next general elections.

I call on Keng Yaik to give three reasons why he thinks PAS can win 25 MPs in the next elections and why UMNO and Dr. Mahathir will lose power.

There is no doubt that Dr. Mahathir is worried about the likely outcome in the next general elections. For the first time in the history of Malaysian elections, a great political change can take place.

Firstly, it should not be too difficult to deny Dr. Mahathir and the Barisan Nasional its two-third majority in Parliament in the next general elections, although this was a target which could not be achieved in the 33 years between Merdeka in 1957 and today.

However, if there is a major political wind of change, then there may even be a change of government not only at the State but also at the Federal level.

Apparently, Keng Yaik agrees with the Semangat 46 President, Tengku Razaleigh Hamzah, that this is possible, and this is why he could postulate PAS winning 25 MPs in the next general elections and Dr. Mahathir losing power.
 
