+++ 
title: "DAP to make an important announcement at the Chan She Shu Yuen tomorrow"
date: "1990-05-02"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in petaling Jaya on Wednesday, 2nd May 1990:_

# DAP to make an important announcement at the Chan She Shu Yuen tomorrow

Gerakan President, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, has the final 24 hours to decide how his political character, conduct and career is to be judged by the people of Malaysia by his appearance or non-appearance at the Chan She Shu Yuen in Kuala Lumpur at 11 a.m. tomorrow.</u>

What Keng Yaik has done, in concocting the imaginary secret meeting between the DAP and PAS in Jakarta on April 16, is the classic example of the unscrupulous and unprincipled length he is prepared to go just to gain political advantage and strike against his political opponent.

What is sad however is that the lies about the secret Jakarta meeting between the DAP and PAB is not just the concoction of one man, but the collective effort of such highly-educated people like the Deputy Gerakan President, Kerk Choo Ting, the Gerakan National Youth leader, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon and the 

Director of Gerakan Publicity Bureau, Dr. Kang Chin San.

Keng Yaik’s lies are a great disgrace to the Gerakan, the Barisan Nasional, the five million Malaysia Chinese and the Malaysian nation

Keng Yaik’s lies are really a great disgrace to the Gerakan, the Barisan Nasional, the five million Malaysian Chinese and the whole Malaysian nation.

Keng Yaik is a great disgrace to Gerakan because as President, he has been proved to be a person with no sense of honesty, honour or the most basic moral values, who could tell lies without the blink of an eye.

Keng Yaik is a great disgrace to Barisan Nasional because he has brought down the moral standing and credibility of the Barisan Nasional. What Keng Yaik has done is as what D.P. Vijandran of MIC had done. Vijandrn brought dishonor and shame to the Barisan Nasional with the Vijandran pornographic videotapes scandal, while Keng Yaik is also bringing dishonor and shame to the Barisan Nasional with the Keng Yaik Lies Scandal.

Keng Yaik is a great disgrace to the five million Malaysian Chinese, for he has exposed the Chinese community to the contempt and ridicule of other races and communities, with his bad example of a Malaysian Chinese leader who could go so low as to tell blatant lies without any sense of shame.

Finally, Keng Yaik has also brought shame and dishonor to the Malaysian nation, for as a Minister of His Majesty’s Government, his blatant lies and dishonourable conduct must have made Malaysia a joke and laughing stock to the foreign diplomatic community!

Keng Yaik’s four dishonourable objectives


Keng Yaik was very wicked in his lies about the secret Jakarta meeting between the DAP and PAS. He wantedto achieve the following four dishonourable objectives:

To discredit and destroy the image and credibility of the DAP for wanting to create an Islamic State by secretly meeting and co-operating with PAS;

To present the allegation in a fashion to present me as a dictator who was going against the policies of DAP and the wishes of the other DAP leaders and the general membership the DAP leaders and the general membership, by wanting to co-operate with PAS;

To create public doubt about the image and integrity od lIew Ah Kim and Lim Guan Eng, whom he accused of representing the DAP in the secret Jakarta meeting between the DAP and PAS;

To create internal DAP split sowing suspicion by claiming that his ‘reliable source’ of information was a ‘high-ranking DAP leader’.

The DAP has fought against these old ‘divide-and-rule’ tricks of the Barisan Nasional and rulling government for 24 years, and Keng Yaik must be very naïve to believe that the DAP leadership can easily fall into his trap.

The DAP leaders have not lost any sleep over Keng Yaik’s lies about the secret meeting between DAO and PAS in Jakarta, for the simple reason that the DAP is completely united behind the DAP Central Executive Committee on its uncompromising stand opposing the Islamic State.

The people who should be losing their sleep over such baseless allegations are Keng Yaik, Choo Ting, Tsu Koon and Chin Sang. They should have learnt the normal that those who lay traps for others may end up being caught by their own traps!

At tomorrow’s date at Chan She Shu Yuen, the DAP will be making an important announcement on the issues which Keng Yaik and the Gerakan ‘Brains’ had been trying to use against the DAP – apart from my inviting Keng Yaik to sue me for slander and defamation by publicly calling him a ‘liar’.
 
