+++ 
title: "If Koh Tsu Koon really believes that I support an Islamic State, then he should regard it as his personal responsibility to contest against me in next general elections to defeat me"
date: "1990-06-23"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, 23rd June 1990:_

# If Koh Tsu Koon really believes that I support an Islamic State, then he should regard it as his personal responsibility to contest against me in next general elections to defeat me

Yesterday’s statement by Dr. Kah Tsu Koon, one of the two designated successors to Dr. Lim Chong Eu announced by Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, is further proof that he was one of the ‘masterminds’ in the Gerakan who convinced the lies about the so-called DAP-PAS secret meeting in Jakarta made by the Gerakan President in April.</u>

This is why Koh Tsu Koon will take every opportunity to try to convince Malaysians that the DAP, and in particular I myself, supports an Islamic State.

This explains for the Gerakan poster picturing me as wearing a songkok, perched on a rocket, to reach a secret understanding with PAS to establish an Islamic State.

Dr. Koh knows that the Utusan Malaysia report yesterday quoting PAS Central Committee member, Khalid Samad, as saying in Alor Star that DAP is prepared to accept the establishment of an Islamic State if Angkatan Perpaduan Ummah(APU) wins in the next general elections, is untrue and impossible.

In fact, the DAP Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Sdr. Lim Guan Eng, issued a clear statement yesterday saying that Khalid Samad’s statement, if correctly reported, is untrue, baseless and irresponsible.

But Koh Tsu Koon would not want to miss such an opportunity to come out with a statement which has only one motive and one purpose: to continue to spread the lies among the people that the DAP and I secretly support an Islamic State.

If Koh Tsu Koon really believes that I secretly support an Islamic State, then he should regard it as his personal political responsibility to contest against me in the next general elections, expose my ulterior motives and eliminate me from the political scene. This is what I would do if I were in Koh Tsu Koon’s shoes, for clearly we must not allow a political leader who hide secret intentions to set up an Islamic State to mislead the people.

If Koh Tsu Koon wants to eliminate me from the political scene by contesting against me because I secretly harbour the objective of an Islamic State, then I will let him know in advance the constituency I would be contesting in the next general elections.
 
