+++ 
title: "Sdr, Kerk Kim Hock appointed National Organising Secretary "
date: "1990-01-21"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Sunday, 21.1.1990:_

# Sdr, Kerk Kim Hock appointed National Organising Secretary 

The DAP Central Executive Committee, in the process of an on-going reshuffle of party responsibilities to prepare the party for the challenges of the 1990s,has appointed Sdr. Kerk Kim Hock as National Organising Secretary.</u>

	The CEC has appointed Dr. Tan Seng Giaw as one of the Party’s National Vice Chairman with the special responsibility to head a new CEC committee to oversee the drawing up and implementation of a comprehensive programme of political education in the party at national, state and branch levels.

	The DAP CEC has identified political education, organization and publicity/publications as the three most crucial areas of party activities in the 1900s, and have decided to give the highest priority and emphasis to these three aspects of party development.

	The CEC will also set up special national committees to oversee both organisation and publicity/publications.

DAP to discuss with Tengku Razaleigh and Semangat 46 leaders on February 5 on joint action to demand removal of Tan Sri Abu Talib Othman as Attorney-General

	At the next meeting of DAP and Semangat 46 leaders, DAP leaders will discuss with Tengku Razaleigh and other Semangat 46 leaders on joint action to demand removal of Tan Sri Abu Talib Othman as Attorney-General and the expulsion of D.P. Vijandran as Deputy Speaker and Member of Parliament.

	The DAP and Semangat 46 leaders have decided on having regular meetings to discuss the latest political developments and to exchange views. The next meeting has been fixed for February 5.

	The Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal is no more an issue which concerns the political future of one person, but affects the integrity of the government and public confidence on the independence and impartially of the administration of justice.

	The question everyone is asking inside and outside the country is whether the administration of justice in Malaysia has reached a stage where the Attorney-General has the power to destroy evidence which could be used in criminal investigations and prosecutions, without any judicial order.

	The very fact that neither Tan Sri Abu Talib Othman and the Prime Minister sought to give any reason to win public support for this action shows that they know that the destruction of the Vijandran videotapes and photographs is completely unjustifiable, unwarranted and unlawful. If Tan Sri Abu Talib could say so many things on the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal in the last week, why is it he could not give one reason to explain why the Vijandran videotapes and photographs had to be destroyed by the Police?

	Members of Parliament of all political parties must decide whether the Attorney-General is answerable to Parliament and Accountable to the people for his actions, or whether he is a law unto himself. I hope that there would be independent-minded and principled MPs in the Barisan National who would dare to support the DAP motion for the removal of Tan Sri Abu Talib Othman at the February meeting of Parliament.  
 
