+++ 
title: "DAP calls for the expulsion of D.P. Vijandran as MP for Kapar as he has been described by the Prime Minister as a ‘pervert’ and ‘miring’"
date: "1990-03-11"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang , in Petaling Jaya on Sunday, 11th March 1990:_

# DAP calls for the expulsion of D.P. Vijandran as MP for Kapar as he has been described by the Prime Minister as a ‘pervert’ and ‘miring’

After careful study of last Thursday’s Hansard on the one-hour question-and-answer session by the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, on the Vijandran pornographic videotapes scandal, the DAP has come to the conclusion that for the image, dignity and integrity of Parliament, a person who had been described as ‘perverted’ and ‘miring (mereng)’ as a MP if D.P. Vijandran continues as MP for Kapar.</u>

I hereby give notice and warn that every Barisan Nasional party and leader would be held responsible for supporting a ‘pervert’ and a person who is ‘miring (mereng)’ as a MP if D.P. Vijandran continues as MP for Kapar.

Before the Prime Minister’s hour-long question-and-answer session on the vijandran pornographic videotapes scandal last Thursday, the DAP had left open the question of the status of Vijandran as Member of Parliament. We had only insisted that Vijandran step down as Deputy Speaker.

However, after the Prime Minister’s hour-long reply on the Vijandran pornographic videotapes scandal, where he referred to Vijandran as a ‘pervert’ and ‘miting (mereng)’, it is clearly a disgrace and dishonour to Parliament for Vijandran to continue to be a MP. Malaysia will also become the laughing stock of the world to continue to have a person declared by the Prime Minister as ‘pervert’ and ‘miring’ to continue as MP.  

In the hour-long question-and-answer session last Thursday, Dr. Mahathir has also made the very damaging admission that Vijandran has filmed other people in the eleven Vijandran pornographic video-tapes without their knowledge or consent.

Dr. Maharthir Mohamed, in has capacity as Prime Minister and Barisan Nasional Chairman, should initiate immediate action to expel Vijandran from the House, as the Prime Minister himself had condemned him as a ‘pervert’ and ‘miring (mereng)’ in the Dewan Rakyat last Thursday.

If Datuk Samy Vellu wants to have a ‘pervert’ and someone who is ‘mereng’ as  a MIC leader, it is none of our concern, but Parliament cannot have a MP who is publicly described by the Prime Minister as a ‘pervert’ and ‘Miring)’.

I do not know what is Vijandran’s reaction to Dr. Mahathir’s accusations, but if the wants to clear his name, Vijandran would have no choice but to challenge Dr. Mahathir to repeat outside Dewan what he had said about Vijandran being a ‘pervert’ and ‘mereng’ so that he could sue Dr. Mahathir for defamation, or refer the Prime Minister to the Committee of Privileges.
 
