+++ 
title: "Indomitable spirit of Chian Heng Kai and Chan Kok Kit should be example for all DAP Members"
date: "1981-02-16"
tags:
+++

# Indomitable spirit of Chian Heng Kai and Chan Kok Kit should be example for all DAP Members

I visited Sdr. Chian Heng Kai and Sdr. Chan Kok Kit in Kamunting Detention Camp on Friday, January 30, 1981. Although both have just had their Internal Security Act detention orders extended by another two years after four years’ of unjust incarceration, the indomitable spirit of Chian Heng Kai and Chan Kok Kit should be and inspiring example for all DAP members and leaders.</u>

We must always remember that both Chian Heng Kai and Chan Kok Kit could have had their freedom long long ago if they were prepared to renounce their past and the Party’s political struggle. But Heng Kai and Kok Kit have proved to be the DAP’s greatest leaders for their courage, selflessness, sacrifice and indomitable will and spirit, and as the Chinese saying goes, shown that ‘Power and might cannot subdue, Poverty and humble status cannot shake, Wealth and Luxury cannot buy’.

Although both Chian Heng Kai and Chan Kok Kit have been cut off from political development in the party and country, both have expressed grave concern about the events preceding and following on the Pengkalan Kota by-election, and those of the last four months. If there is anybody who have sacrificed for Chinese education in the Party, then it is Chian Heng Kai and Chan Kok Kit, who are the matyrs of Chinese education.

Both Heng Kai and Kok Kit wants the Party leadership and membership to stand steadfast against the campaign of malice, venom and hatred being directed against us by our political enemies, particularly centring on the smear that the DAP leadership, especially myself, is anti-Chinese educated. And both our comrades in detention camp, cut off from development outside the camp, instinctively knows that this is an evil campaign aimed at destroying the DAP, and that anyone inside the Party who directly or indirectly, aid or abet such a campaign, must be ruthlessly removed from the Party, for they would have shown themselves to be anti-party.

The line must indeed be clearly drawn between those who love and cherish the party, and who, whatever their internal differences, are always prepared to subordinate their views to that of the Party’s larger interest, as distinct from those who are prepared to pursue their own personal viewpoints in utter disregard of larger party interests, even to the extend of trying to hold the party to ransom, whether in terms of tarnishing the image of the Part or a confrontationist attitude with the Party leadership.

Revival of Taiping DAP

On the same night as I visited Heng Kai and Kok Kit, I attended the DAP dinner in Taiping, organised by the Perak State DAP and our Taiping comrades.

The dinner was organised within the short space of two weeks, and just before the Chinese New Year, and I am impressed with the public response making it a great success. It demonstrated that although Lim Eng Chuan has betrayed us, the DAP’s support in Taiping is still tremendous, and that Perak DAP and our comrades in Taiping should immediately start work on reviving the Taiping DAP Branch activities, so that in the next general elections the DAP can redeem ourselves in Taiping.

$5,027.85 donation to DAP Building Fund by Teluk Anson DAP Branch

The Teluk Anson DAP Branch, at the 1,000-People Dinner on Jan. 17, donated $5,027.85 to the DAP Building Fund. Other donations received are $1,000 from Kulai DAP Branch and $1,000 from Jalan Larkin and Tampoi Branches.

The Teluk Anson DAP Branch dinner should be a great encouragement to all branches about the reservoir of support for the DAP on the ground. When the Teluk Anson DAP Branch decided to hold a dinner, it was rather apprehensive about the support from the public. But when it was organised, the tremendous response from the public making it a 1,000-People Dinner exceeded all expectations by our teluk Anson Branch.
Secretary-General’s Programme 
	I give below my programme of activities:
	Feb 17: (6.30p.m.)	Visit Serdang Lama.
	Feb 17: (8.00p.m.)	Attend Petaling Liaison Cttee Meeting in Serdang Bahru
	Feb 17: (7.30p.m.)	Visit Klang Pasar Branch, Klang.
	Feb 21:	1,000-People Dinner by Ulu Langat Liaison Ctee in Kajang.
	Feb 22:	Attend Rasa DAP branch Dinner, Selangor.
	Feb 27 – March 6: 	Visit Sarawak with Deputy Secretary-General Lee Lam Thye
		Feb 28:	Opening of Igan DAP Branch 1 p.m.
Feb 22:	Inauguration of Sariken DAP Branch Women’s Section followed by     reception/concert 7.30 p.m.
		March 1: Sarawak State Ctee Meeting
		March 2: Sibu Branch Women’s Section Reception to commemorate Woman’s Day.
		March 3: Dinner at Bintulu 
		March 4: Dinner at Simanggang
		March 5: Meeting of Kuching cadres
	March 1: Attend Penang State Committee meeting 8 p.m.
	March 1: Attend Sitiawan/Kampong Koh joint dinner.
	March 1: Open Perak State DAP cadres seminar at 9.30 a.m. in Ipoh.
	March 1: Sungei Siput Dinner
	March 16: OFFICIAL Opening of Parliament, meeting until April 10, 1981.
	March 20, 21 and 22: Visit Pahang Branch and attend Pahang State meeting.
	April 11, 12 and 13  : MPs and SAs Seminar
	May 1	: 1,000-People Dinner at Jalan Templer
	May 3	: Kepong DAP Dinner.
	May 9, 10: Johore State DAP Cadres’ Seminar in Kluang
	May 11 – 16: Visit Johore Branches.
	May 23	: Dinner at Titi, Negri Sembilan.
	June 20	: Dinner at Jalan Templer, Seremban.
	July/August: 15th Anniversary Party Congress and 10,000-People Dinner.

ADDENDUM

Feb. 24: Meeting of Federal Territory Branch committee members/MPs at Jalan Sultan premises at 7.30 p.m. to discuss DAP’s future in F.T
	June 7	: Speaks to Private Dinner function. 
 
