+++ 
title: "DAP calls on the new Home Affairs Minister, Datuk Musa Hitam, to lift the ban on the Prime Minister’s book, ‘The Malay Dilemma’"
date: "1981-07-24"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Petaling, Lim Kit Siang, at the Perak DAP State Committee meeting at Perak DAP State premises at Jalan Chamberlain, Ipoh, on Friday, 24th July 1981 at 8p.m._	

# DAP calls on the new Home Affairs Minister, Datuk Musa Hitam, to lift the ban on the Prime Minister’s book, ‘The Malay Dilemma’

Malaysia has now the dubious distinction of being the only country in the world where the Prime Minister’s most important political book, which made his political reputation and propelled him to the highest political office in the country, is still banned by his own government.</u>

Dr. Mahathir had repeatedly said that the Malay Dilemma had served as the basis on which the New Economic Policy was formulated.

It is indeed ridiculous beyond description that the Prime Minister’s book should continue to be banned. In fact, if it is true as Dr. Mahathir has claimed that the ‘Malay Dilemma’ had been the source-book of the New Economic Policy , it is all the more important that the Prime Minister’s book should be freely available to Malaysians inside the country to better understand the Prime Minister’s thinking and ideas.

In any event, the ban on the ‘Malay Dilemma’ has not prevented large numbers of Malaysians from reading the book, as it is available in neighbouring Singapore, and as Dr. Mahathir said in an interview after becoming Prime Minister, the ‘The Malay Dilemma’ is very popular having gone into four editions. I have no doubt that the overwhelming majority of the purchasers of the four editions of ‘The Malay Dilemma’ are Malaysians

I therefore call on the new Home Affairs Minister, Datuk Musa Hitam, to lift the ban on ‘The Malay Dilemma’ and end this curious situation in Malaysia where the Prime Minister’s most important political work is banned in his own country by his own government. Malaysia will be a laughing stock if we continue the situation where the foreigners are entitled to red and know about the Prime Minister’s thinking and ideas while Malaysians are banned from doing so.

Call on MCA and Gerakan Ministers and MPs to reconsider and come forward to join DAP MP s in next Parliament to condemn Haji Suhaimi for his extremism					

Only July 9, I wote to Datuk Lee San Choon, Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, Tan Sri Ong Kee Hui and Datuk Samy Vellu suggesting that MCA, Gerakan, SUPP and MIC Ministers, Deputy Ministers, Parliamentary Secretaries and Members of Parliament should join with all DAP MPs in next Parliament to move a motion to condemn Haji Suhaimi Kamarrudin, UMNO outh Leader, for his extremist and chauvinistic demands and speeches.

Up till now I have not received any replu from anyone of the four, although they had indicated publicly that they would not condemn Haji Suhaimi in Parliament.

The unreserved condemnation of Haji Suhaimi for his extremist and chauvinist speeches and demands in now even more important with his appointment as Deputy Education Minister.

Recently, there had been various proposals to the effect that the MCA, Gerakan and the DAP should stand united to fight for the basic rights and interests of the Malaysia Chinese. If the MCA and Gerakan leaders are not prepared to stand up with the DAP to condemn Haji Suhaimi in Parliament for his extremist and chauvinist speeches and demands, I do not see how such proposals could ever be practical.

I hope that Datuk Kee San Choon, Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, Tan Sri Ong Kee Hui and Datuk Samy Velu would reconsider and put aside narrow self and party interests, and in the larger interests of ensuring that the voices of reason and moderation assert their rightful place, join the DAP in condemning Haji Suhaimi in Parliament as proposed by DAP.
 
