+++ 
title: "DAP support the Sultan of Johore’s campaign to clean up corruption and vice in Johore State"
date: "1981-06-20"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Petaling, Lim Kit Siang, in Johore Bahru on Saturday, 20th June 1981_

# DAP support the Sultan of Johore’s campaign to clean up corruption and vice in Johore State

With the sustaining support of the Sultan of Johore, the Johore NBI has a new lease of life. The DAP fully supports the Sultan of Johore’s campaign to clean up corruption and vice in Johore State.</u>

Corruption in Johore and Malaysia has probably become the most rampant ever since Merdeka, and high-level support is clearly needed for a determined attack on this most cancerous growth in Malaysian society.

The NBI had failed public expectations ever since its establishment, for although the public are aware of the corrupt practices prevalent in society, the NBI appears to be blissfully unware of the extent and magnitude of corruption in the country.

The No.1 problem of corruption in Malaysia is the problem of the corruption of the politically powerful in the country. It is no use the NBI catching ikan bilis if the sharks in the state and country are allowed to flaunt their ill-gotten gains with arrogance and impunity.

Unless and until the NBI could courageously take action against the corrupt in high political places, known to all the public, the NBI will have no credibility or public confidence.

The DAP hopes that with the support given by the Sultan of Johore to clean up corruption and vice in the Johore State, the NBI will prove its worth and get down to the task of tackling and bringing to book the powerfully corrupt, who are the real roots causes of corruption.
 
