+++ 
title: "Asia-Pacific Socialist Organisation Conference in Sydney"
date: "1981-01-09"
tags:
+++

# Asia-Pacific Socialist Organisation Conference in Sydney

The DAP will attend the Second Asia-Pacific Socialist Organisation Conference to be held in Sydney on Fed. 6 – 8, 1981. The DAP will be represented by DAP Deputy Secretary-General, Sdr. Lee Lam Thye, and National Organising Secretary,Sdr. P. Patto.

The main themes for the Conference will be:

•	Relations Between the Developed and Developing Nation in the Region;
•	Future of the Asia-Pacific Socialist Organisation and the Scope for membership.</u>

The DAP delegation will present a paper on “Population Growth and Development” on 7th Feb, 1981.

The APSO Conference is being held in Sydney because the Australian Labour Party is the ruling party in New South Wales. As a consequence, the Conference will be officially opened by the Premier of New South Wales, Neville Wran, who is also the President of the Australian Labour Party

Chinese Rocket in the process of preparation

After a long lapse, the Chinese Rocket is now in the process of preparation, and beginning January 1981, the Chinese Rocket would appear regularly every month. The Chinese Rocket is in the charge of an editorial board under the chairmanship of the Acting Publicity Secretary, Sdr. Dr. Tan Seng Giaw, with Sdr. Liew Ah Kim in direct charge of the monthly Chinese Rocket production.

State and branched must gear themselves to push the sales of the Chinese Rocket every month.

Further Changes in 1981 Programme

There have been further changes in my 1981 programme, beginning end of February 1981. I provide below the main outlines of the new programme for general guidance of branches:

	February 27: Official Opening of Igan DAP Branch, Sarawak
	February 28: Official inauguration of Sariken DAP Branch Women’s Section, S’k
	March 20, 21 and 22: Visit Pahang Branches and attend Pahang State meeting
	March 25,29: PENANG SEMINAR
	April 11, 12 & 13: MPs and SAs Sminar.
	May 1: 1,000-People Dinner at Ampang Baru, Ipoh
	June 27: dinner at Jalan Templer
	July/August: 15th Anniversary Party Congress.

My visit to DAP Parliamentary and State Assembly constituencies, which will be held on week-days rather than on week-ends will be detailed in the next F.SG.D.
 
