+++ 
title: "Call on People’s Republic of China to publicly withdraw its support to the armed struggle of the Communist party of Malaya"
date: "1981-07-04"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, Dap secretary-General and MP for Petaling ,Lim Kit Siang, at meeting of DAP Federal Territory branch committee members at Pudu DAP Branch, Kuala Lumpur on Tuesday, 4th July 1981 at 8 pm._

# Call on People’s Republic of China to publicly withdraw its support to the armed struggle of the Communist party of Malaya.

The Chinese Premier, Zhao Ziyang, will visit Malaysia from August 9-11, in the course of his tour of ASEAN countries.</u>

A long-standing issue between Malaysia and people’s Republic of China ever since the establishment of diplomatic relation between the two countries has been PRC’s support to the armed struggle of the communist Party of Malaya.

The DAP calls on the People’s Republic of China to fully normalize the relations between the two countries, and hopes that during his official visit Malaysia, the Chinese Premier, Zhao Ziyang, could announce the PRC’s withdrawal of support to the armed struggle of CPM.

The future and fate of the five million Chinese in Malaysia are to be worked out completely by Malaysian Chinese and within the Malaysian context. The Malaysian Chinese have become fully Malaysians, and despite the common cultural past with Chinese in China, the allegiance and loyalty in the company of other Malaysian compatriots of Malaysian Chinese is completely to Malaysia.

Democratic Action Party

Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, Dap secretary-General

The PRC’s continued support to the armed struggle of the CPM can only give cause to those who wish to suspect the loyalty of the Malaysian Chinese to Malaysia, to Malaysia, and justify various demands of extremism and intolerance.

The future and the destiny of Malaysian Chinese in Malaysia and the Chinese in China are now completely separate, and the earlier outstanding problems like the PRC’s support to the armed struggle of the CPM is ended, the better it is for both countries and for the peoples in both nations.

DAP wants the problem of 200,000 stateless person to resolved

In this connections, the problem of the 200,000-300,000 stateless persons, holders of red identity cards, must be resolve speedily. These are stateless persons because although the overwhelming majority of them are either born in Malaysia, or had spent the best part of their lives in Malaysia, they and could qualify for the citizenship conditions, they are still stateless.

This is grave human and social problem, and I call on the new Home Affairs Minister, Datuk Musa , to regularize this matter by providing for policy and administrative green-light to confer citizenship to these stateless persons who fulfil all the requisite conditions for citizenship.

DAP Federal Territory must aim to win all five FT seats in next general elections

This meeting tonight had been called gear all Federal Territory DAP Branches to prepare for the next general election, with the target of winning all the five Federal Territory seats.

The release of Sdr. Chan Kok Kit after 4 years and 9 months’ detention will provide a major boost to the DAP’s Federal Territory political initiatives. It is now up to the Federal Territory DAP leaders and members to show their mettle and prove their capability to the deliver the goods five FT parliamentary seats in the next elections.
 
