+++ 
title: "DAP condemns Israel and the Phalangists for the massacre of Palestinians in Beirut refugee camps"
date: "1982-09-22"
tags:
+++

_Press Statement by DAP Secretary-General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Wednesday, Sept. 22, 1982:_

# DAP condemns Israel and the Phalangists for the massacre of Palestinians in Beirut refugee camps

The world has been revolted by the massacre of Palestinians in Beirut refugee camps by the Christian Phalangists. Israel cannot disclaim responsibility for the genocidal massacres of Palestinians as Beirut was completely under their military control during the massacres. </u>

Israel must stand equally condemned by humanity and world opinion for the massacres, for clearly, the massacres could not have taken place without the connivance and collusion of the Israel authority. 

Having been the victims of a holocaust during the Nazi period, where Hitler sought to exterminate the Jews and led to the killing of six million Jews, modern-day Israel has embarked on a Nazi course to perpetrate a holocaust on the Palestinians, to exterminate them from the face of the earth. 

All countries in the world must unite to restrain Israel from continuing on this genocidal course. While Israel and the Christian Phalangists stand condemned for the Beirut massacres, the United State of America must also be held responsible in enabling Israel to embark on such a genocidal course.

The Palestinians had suffered enough, and all countries in the world must act in concert to restore to the Palestinians their Palestinian homeland and treat Israel as an international outcast if it goes against United Nations resolution to restore a national Palestinian homeland to the Palestinians. 

The DAP calls on the Malaysian Government, at the forthcoming United Nations General Assembly, to take an active part to formulate and ensure passage of a United Nations General Assembly resolution restoring a national Palestinian homeland for the Palestinians. 
 
