+++ 
title: "First Report by DAP Mps and State Assemblymen"
date: "1982-11-25"
tags:
+++

To All DAP MPs / State Assemblymen
Saudara,

# First Report by DAP Mps and State Assemblymen

As stated in the F. SG. D/2/82, DAP MPs and State Assemblymen are required to submit regular reports to the Central Executive Committee on their activities to ensure that the DAP MPs and Assemblymen measure up to the expectations of the Party, constituency and country.</u>

In the last elections, the Party lost in many areas because of the poor performance of the incumbent DAP MP or Assemblymen, and we must not allow this to happen again in future.

It was originally intended that MPs and State Assemblymen submit quarterly reports on their activities beginning with the first report in the first week of September, but the events leading to the Kepayang by-election of necessity had delayed the beginning of this programme.

You are now asked to submit a report on the first six months of your Parliamentary and SAs Supervisory Council headed by DAP National Chairman, Dr. Chen Man Hin, and comprising Sdr. Ibrahim Singgeh, Sdr. P. Patto, Sdr. Chian Heng Kai and Sdr. Chong Siew Chiang, within ten days here of, i.e. by 6th December 1982 or State Assembly duties from April 22/26 to the DAP National MPs.

Your report should cover three aspects of your responsibilities:

•	To your constituency, in terms of helping to resolve problems of your constituents and the constituency, the arrangements made to provide constituency service, the main issues or events of note during the period;

•	To the people at large in terms of larger political, economic, social, educational and cultural questions and rights, whether in your constituency or outside, the issues you were involved with, the highlights of activities, etc;

•	To the Party, at branch, state or national level, in terms of your contribution to carry the Party banner to raise the political consciousness of the people, promote party progress and expansion, etc.

Your report could be accompanied by Photostat copies of news cuttings or other documentations so that we can build up in Party Headquarters a file on the progress reports of each constituency held by the DAP.

Your report would also be made available to the Sixth Party Congress to be held in Seremban from Dec. 10 – 12 should delegates ask for them. Your report should therefore reach the National Chairman, addressed to Party Headquarters, with a copy to me, before the deadline of 6th December 1982.

Yours fraternally,
Lim Kit Siang
(Lim Kit Siang)
 
