+++ 
title: "DAP Save Bukit China Mass Signature Campaign has passed the 150000 signature-mark"
date: "1984-09-17"
tags:
+++

_Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, at the Federal Territory DAP Save Bukit China Committee and branch leader held at DAP Pudu Branch on Monday, 17..9.1984 at 8 p.m._

# DAP Save Bukit China Mass Signature Campaign has passed the 150000 signature-mark

The DAP National Save Bukit China Mass Signature Campaign has passed the 150000 signature mark a months after the nation-wide launching of the signature campaign on August 15, 1984. This should serve as a strong reminder and warning to the Malacca Chief Minister, Datuk Abdul Rahim Thamby Cik, that he must respect the wishes of the people, especially as he is the head of an elected government.</u>

The Malacca Chief Minister was acting childishly when he said at the press conference on Sept. 12 that he would not be hound by the Cheng Hoon Teng Temple Opinion Poll or the DAP Save Bukit China mass signature campaign.

The Malacca Chief Minister also misinterpreted the Cheng Hoon Teng (Trustees (Incorporation) Ordinance 1949 when he claimed in his Sept. 12 press conference that the trustees have the powers under the Ordinance to agree to the leveling and development of Bukit China into a housing and commercial centre.

The Malacca Chief Minister is not a lawyer, yet he talks as if he is more qualified than lawyers to interpret the laws. The ‘development’ which is mentioned in the Cheng Hoon Teng (Incorporation) Ordinance 1949 refers to the ‘development of burial grounds’ and not the desecration of burial rounds, which would defeat the very purpose of having the Cheng Hoon Teng Temple (Ordinance).

I challenge the Malacca Chief Minister whether his legal opinion is his own, Chan Teck Chan’s, or that of the State Legal Adviser or the Attorney-General?

The MCA Acting President, Datuk Dr. Neo Yee Pan, has said that the Bukit China issue, especially with regard to the Cheng Hoon Teng Temple (Incorporation) Ordinance 1949 had been referred to the Attorney-General for his study and opinion. Has the Attorney-General completed his study and what is his opinion?

Wong Swaa Teck of Durian Daun DAP Branch has got the highest individual number of signatures for 3302										
The DAP Save Bukit China mass signature campaign is now in its third phase, which is house-to-house signature campaign. The first phase was individual signature-gathering. The individual with the highest number of signatures collected is the DAP Malacca State Socialist Youth Publicity Secretary and DAP Durian Daun (Malacca) Branch Publicity Secretary, Sdr. Wong Swee Teck, who personally collected 3302 signatures.

The Second highest individual with 1658 signatures is Malacca DAP State Publicity Secretary and Malacca Lorong Panjang DAP Branch Secretary, Sdr. Loo Kin. The third is Sdr. Liew Fatt Yuen, the Pahang DAP State Committee Adviser, Sdr. who collected 1458 signatures.

The second phase of the signature campaign is to have centres in busy thoroughfares, and the third phase houses-to-house signature campaigns. The fourth goes to tan Ah Poh of Johore Bahru DAP Branch with 1200 signatures.

I call on Malaysians of all races who have not yet signed the Save Bukit China Signature petition to come forward, for this is the people’s participation in a campaign to save our historic, religious, cultural heritage.
 
