+++ 
title: "Call on people of Malacca to visit Bukit China on July 8 as a massive demonstration of public opposition to government plan to level and develop Bukit China"
date: "1984-07-02"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, on Monday, 2nd July 1984_

# Call on people of Malacca to visit Bukit China on July 8 as a massive demonstration of public opposition to government plan to level and develop Bukit China

The Malacca State Government’s intention to level and develop Bukit China so as to use the earth to reclaim the sea and turn the area into a housing and commercial complex must be opposed so that the Malacca State Government drop the idea completely, without asking taking further action.</u>

This is why it is crucial that before the Malacca State Government takes the second concrete action to proceed to level and develop Bukit China, the people at large must make their opposition unmistakable and irresistible.

For this reason, I am calling on all Malaccans who are concerned about the State Government’s intention to level and develop Bukit China to visit Bukit China on Sunday, July 8, to gather at the Sam Poh Temple at the foot of the Bukit China, at 10a.m.m as a demonstration of the opposition of the people of Malacca to the State Government’s plan for Bukit China.

The future of Bukit China is going to depend to a large extent on the preparedness of the people, in particular the Chinese in Malacca, to make their voice heard and stand known. Families and descendants of those buried on Bukit China in particular should come forward to express their opposition to government plan to demolish the 12,500 graves on Bukit China.

On July 8, the Malacca people concerned about the future of Bukit China should gather not only to demonstrate their opposition to the government’s plan to level and develop Bukit China, but/ for a mass visit to Bukit China to understand the religious, cultural and historic significance of Bukit China.

I expect the July 8 gathering to be the first of a series of public protests against the State Government’s plan to level Bukit China, and that is why it should be a massive one, with people coming out in large numbers t6o express solidarity to the cause to save Bukit China.

The DAP National Save Bukit China Committee, comprising DAP MPs, Assemblymen and leaders, which will meet for the first time in Malacca the same day at 12 noon, would also be at Bukit China at 10a.m.

Call on all Chinese in Malacca and Malaysia to unite on a common three-opposition position to save Bukit China

The Chinese community, especially those outside Malacca, have shown considerable confusion and contradiction over the Bukit China issue, which should could undermine the campaign to save Bukit China.
 
I call on all Chinese organisations, and all Chinese in Malacca and Malaysia, to take a common three-opposition stand on Bukit China, to save Bukit China from being leveled and a 500-year-old historic, religious and cultural centre from being destroyed. This three-opposition stand in Bukit China is:

1.	Oppose Government Acquisition of Bukit China; 
2.	Oppose Government Development of Bukit China;
3.	Oppose Government Demand of $2 million of quit rent on Bukit China.

The July 8 demonstration at Bukit China should be a show of how strongly the people of Malacca feel about opposing the State Government’s on these three principles! People outside Malacca sho support the opposition of the government’s plan to acquire, to develop and to demand $2 million quit rent, are also welcome to Bukit China on July 8 at 10a.m.

With reference to the GPB’s 20,000-signature memorandum to the State Government expressing supports for government development of Bukit China, and my 48-hour ultimatum, GBB officials had seen me on the matter, and I made it very clear to them that they had done was highly damaging to the cause of Bukit China. I am ^  that ^ would convene an emergency Central Committee meeting on the matter. In view of this development, the GBB issue would be considered by the DAP National Save Bukit China Committee inaugural meeting on Sunday, July 8, 1984.
 
