+++ 
title: "DAP commands Penang Chinese Assembly Hall for its support for the cause to preserve Bukit China"
date: "1984-09-20"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Thursday, 20.9.1984 at 11 a.m._

# DAP commands Penang Chinese Assembly Hall for its support for the cause to preserve Bukit China

The DAP commends the Penang Chinese Assembly Hall for its support for the cause to preserve Bukit China in Malacca. I understand why the Penang Chinese Assembly Hall had taken such a long time to break its silence, especially as the eight other Chinese national organizations had taken a form stand early on.</u>

We know that the Penang Chinese Assembly Hall had not taken a stand on Bukit China earlier because of the influence for the Gerakan elements in Penang Chinese Assembly Hall, especially as Dr. Lim Chong Eu and Dr. Lim Keng Yaik had expressed their lack of support and enthusiasm for the Bukit China cause. Dr. Lim Chong Eu, for instance, declared as Penang Chief Minister that the people outside Malacca – implying that the Penang people should ignore the fate of Bukit China. Dr. Lim Keng Yaik supported the creative development’ of Bukit China, meaning keeping a portion for historic and cultural purpose while leveling and developing the rest for housing and commercial development.

If I had not two weeks ago exposed how the Gerakan elements in the Penanag Chinese Assembly Hall had been misusing their position and influence in the organization to further their political purpose, then the Penang Chinese Assembly Hall would probably still be silent on the Bukit China issue.

I am mentioninling this because the people must know the truth, not because I want to confront the Penang Chinese Assembly Hall. I want the Penang Chinese Assembly Hall to be effective and representative of the rights and interests of the Chinese community, and it could not do so if it does not allow any political party to misuse it for its party political purpose.

I hope that the Gerakan elements will in future stop misusing their position and influence in the Penang Chinese Assembly Hall to suit their political ends, if they really love and are concerned about the status and standing of the Penang Chinese Assembly Hall.

DAP to expose the corruption, abuse of power and breaches of trust by top Berjaya leaders in Sabah at the Chinese Assembly Hall on Monday, Sept. 24 at 8 pm

I have today cabled to the Sabah Chief Minister, Datuk Harris Salleh, the Bongawan Assemblyman for Sabah, Abdul Hamid Awang and the Berjaya Information Chief, Datuk Haji Abdul Majid khan, officially inviting them to the Sept. 24 date at the Chinese Assembly Hall in Kuala Lumpur at 8 p.m. to give them a final opportunity to redeem their political horour and reputation to repeat their allegation that I have received $1 million from Tun Mustapha and that Sdr. Fung Ket Wing (DAP MP for Sandakan) had received $100000.

All there of them could ce assured that if they dared to come on Monday to the Chinese Assembly Hall, they would not be locked at the gate as happened to me on Tuesday night.

On Sept. 29, the DAP will also expose the corruption, the abuse of power and breaches of trust rampant among Berjaya leaders, which have made Sabah with the most notorious reputation for corruption. In fact, when I visited Sabah in February 1978, I had already received prevalent complaints by the people of Sabah about corruption which is wife at all levels of government, it is indeed the Sabah people themselves who gave me the best description for corruption in Sabah, the Chinese saying ‘Big small all eat’!

I was later banned from entry into Sabah because I called for the Berjaya party and the Sabah Chief Minister, Datuk Harris Salleh, to return to the founding Berjaya principles of Tun Fuad, Datuk Peter Mojuntin and Datuk Chong Thian Vun, who pledged to have a clean, incorrupt and honest government.

The Sept. 24 date at the Chinese Assembly Hall will provide a new dimension to the Defend Sabah State Constitution Campaign which was formally launched also at the Chinese Assembly Hall, Kuala Lumpur three weeks earlier on Sept. 3.

Petronas purchases of Bank Bumiputra has violated the national oil corporation’s original purpose

The Petronas rescue operation of Bank Bumiputra and its purchase of the Bumiputra Malaysia Finance’s billion-dollar bad debtshas raised many fundamental issues, one of which is whether it is right for Petronas, which is set up with the specific purpose as the National Oil Corporation, to branch out into the banking business in the Big way as it is doing in bailing out Bank Bumiputra.

The Petronas Chairman, Raja tan Sri Mohar Raja Badiozaman, cannot just dismiss questions as to whether Petronas had violated its charter, by declaring: “What charter? We are a company incorporated under the Companies Act and we have our own Articles of Association.”

Raja Tan Sri Mohar Raja Badiozaman and the Petronas management must realize that they are entrusted with the guardianship, management and development of out national petroleum resources, and both the u[pstream and downstream activities, and not to become bankers or torth-pasts tycoons or confectioners, or to become manufacturers of batteries.

Petronas is aflush with funds, but this money should not be misused, as it would be if it is done just to rescue Bank Bumiputra and BMF, contrary to the original objectives and purpose for which Petronas was formed. Although it is established by the Companies Act, it is still accountable to Parliament and to the people, and NOT a conglomerate answerable to no one expect to the Prime Minister personally.

The DAP calls for a special debate to be held in Parliament to discuss the function, role and future of Petronas, as to whether it should be allowed to operate to deny Parliamentt a firmer and more effective control over Off-Budget Agencies – by simply buying up their losses an avoiding public and Parliamentary accountability.
 
