+++ 
title: "DAP calls on Minister of Trade and Industry, Tengku Razaleigh Hamzah, to personally investigate into the Registry of Business scandal on loss or missing 200 files"
date: "1985-09-05"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary- General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Thursday, 5.9.1985_

# DAP calls on Minister of Trade and Industry, Tengku Razaleigh Hamzah, to personally investigate into the Registry of Business scandal on loss or missing 200 files

The report that at least 200 original files and documents held by the Registry of Business have been missing or ‘misplaced’ over a year, causing hardship and inconvenience to businessmen and the public, is most shocking.</u>

This scandal shows that despite the 2M qovernmernt’s slogan of a ‘clean, efficient and trustworthy’ administration, government inefficiencies, deviations and scandals unheard of in previous administration are taking place.

As a result of the missing 200 files with the Business Registry, businessmen who want to alter particulars about their registration are not able to do so, while third parties seeking to find out details about firms they deal with are also affected.

As e result, those who want to alter business particulars have to wait for as long as eight to 10 weeks instead of two to three weeks; while a certificate of registration now takes between four to six weeks instead of the normal one week.

I call On the Minister of Trade and Industry, Tengku Razaleigh Hamzah, to personally investigate into the Business Registry scandal, which highlights the growing inefficiency and insensitivity of qovernment departments generally to public needs.

It would appear that all government departments have forgotten the 2M motto of ‘clean, efficient and trustworthy’ administration, for there is probably even less cleanliness, efficiency and trustworthiness in the public service today than before the 2M government.

DAP calls on ASEAN nations to launch a new initiative on Kampuchea with Pol Pot’s removal as commander of Khmer Rouge

With the removal of Pol Pot as commander of Khmer Rouge and his replacement by Defence Minister Son Sen, ASEAN nations should launch a new initiative on Kampuchea to resolve to Kampuchean conflict.

Pol Pot’s responsibility for genocide in Kampuchea had been an obstacle to greater international support for ASEAN efforts on Kampuchea, and with his removal, new conditions have been created for new efforts to be made on the Kampuchean issue.

The Vietnamese had always insisted on the condition of the removal of Pol Pot, and now this has taken place, the Vietnamese should respond by demonstrating its respect for international law and opinion by withdrawing its 180,000 troops of occupation in Kampuchea.

The Vietnamese should realise that its Vietnamisation of Kampuchea will brand its as the new aggressor of the region, and that it should join hands with countries in South East Asia to restore peace to the region.

With the removal of Pol Pot, steps should also be taken to convene an international conference on Kampuchea to guarantee the sovereignty, peace and neutrality of Kampuchea.
 
