+++ 
title: "I have not yet made up my mind whether I would be accepting the Penang DAP State Committee’s offer to contest in Penang in next general elections, but Penang is now my base of operations to make Penang the DAP’s front-line state"
date: "1985-12-26"
tags:
+++

_Press conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Saturday, Dec.28, 1985 at 12 noon_

# I have not yet made up my mind whether I would be accepting the Penang DAP State Committee’s offer to contest in Penang in next general elections, but Penang is now my base of operations to make Penang the DAP’s front-line state

There has been considerable speculation since the inaugural issue of the revived English Rocket publication early this month that I would be contesting in Penang in the next general elections.</u>

There were prophets of doom that the DAP would be ‘slaughtered’ in Penang in the next general elections, and that the DAP has absolutely no chance whatsoever to capture the Penang State Government.

All that I want to say at this moment is that I had not said that the DAP will be seeking to capture the Penang State Government in the next general elections. What the DAP has decided is to make Penang its front-line state, to make Penang the forefront battleground in the next general elections.

We believe that the next general elections will be a critical test not only for the people of Malaysia but also for the people of Penang ,in shaping the people’s future for the 21st century in 15 years’ time.

I have not yet made up my mind whether I would be accepting the Penang DAP State Committee’s offer to contest in Penang on the next general elections, but Penang is now my base of operations in line with the DAP’s plan to make Penang its front-line state in the next general elections.

The Penang DAP State Committee’s offer was made well before Dr. Lim Chong Eu made his announcement that he would not contest in the next general elections, and the DAP’s plans and my decision will not depend in any way on Dr. Lim Chong Eu’s intention, whether to stick to his earlier announcement or to change his mind to seek another term of Penang Chief Ministership.

It is the Barisan Nasional parties, in particular the Gerakan, which is making all the noise about how sure they are to recapture Penang State Government in the next general elections. Even MCA President, Tan Koon Swan who is already so bogged down with his Pan El crisis, had to find time to pledge co-operation with the Gerakan to help ensure a Barisan Nasional victory in Penang,

All that I would say now is that the Gerakan and the other Barisan Nasional parties seem to be very jittery about the DAP’s plan to make Penang its front-line state, so much so that they are showing their extreme nervousness that they might lose Penang state power.

If the Gerakan and Barisan Nasional parties are so sure about their achievements in Penang, then there is no need for them to get into a feverish fit or excitement whenever Penang is talked about as the DAP’s front-line state.

The DAP will definitely be giving to Gerakan and the Barisan Nasional the strongest fight in the next general elections, for we believe the time has come for change not only in Penang, but also in the whole of  Malaysia. 

I do not underestimate the problems that we have to face to effectively realise DAP’s plan to make Penang its front-line state, but with the people’s support and the co-operation and hard work of Party leaders and members, the chances of success would be greater.
 
