+++ 
title: "Abdul Rahim Thamby Cik is the right target in the Yong Wee Yoke political and immorality"
date: "1985-01-19"
tags:
+++

_Press Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General, and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, in Ipoh on Saturday, 19.1.1985:_

# Abdul Rahim Thamby Cik is the right target in the Yong Wee Yoke political and immorality.

 The Malacca Chief Minister, Datuk Seri Abdul Rahim Thamby Cik, rejected my challenge 
to a public debate to justify the morality and propriety of Yong Wee Yoke’s betrayal of DAP 
and the people, by describing my challenge as ‘politically stupid’. He said I had got the 
wrong target and that I should challenge the defectors and traitors like Chan Teck Chan 
and Yong Wee Yoke to a public debate.</u>

I note that Abdul Rahim Thamby Cik is not getting defensive and rather ashamed of his role 
in the political corruption and immorality of Yong Wee Yoke, and dare not openly defend the 
morality of his action, especially in staging the press conference in the Malacca Chief 
Minister’s office for Yong Wee Yoke to read out his betrayal statement.

In denying that he had anything to do with Yong Wee Yoke’s betrayal statement, and even 
claiming that Yong Wee Yoke write a full Bahasa Malaysia statement praising the 
Barisan Nasional government sky- high, Datuk Seri Abdul Rahim Thamby Cik, had only 
showed his true colours.

In going for Datuk Seri Abdul Rahim Thamby Cik, I had got the right target. In corruption, 
the giver is as guilty as the taker of bribes. Similarly, in political corruption and immorality, 
both the giver and taker are equally guilty of moral wronging.

I challenge Datuk Seri Abdul Rahim Thamby Cik, who is talking so much about a ‘clean, honest 
and trustworthy’ government and inculcation of Islamic values to quote either from the 
Quran or Sunnah to justify the politics of corruption and immorality as exposed by 
Chan Teck Chan and Yong Wee Yoke affairs!

Let me tell Datuk Seri Abdul Rahim Thamby Cik, that his running away from a public debate 
about his role in the political corruption and immorality of the Yong Wee Yoke affair would 
not be the end of the story. In the March Parliamentary debate on the Royal Address, he is 
going to feature prominently in my speech about the Moral Enemy No. 1 of all Malaysians 
– namely the politics of corruption and immorality - and I am giving him advance notice so 
that he could get Ministers and Mps to defend his action.

Oo Gin Sun should resign for the Chinese Mandarin oranges scandal.

The Deputy Minister of Trade, Oo Gin Sun, should resign for the Chinese Mandarin 
oranges scandal. While the people support the direct import of Chinese good into 
Malaysia without having to go through a third country, the manner in which the 
Chinese Mandarin oranges monopoly was granted is clearly against public interest.

Oo Gin Sun now claims that two companies had been given the joint monopoly for the 
import of Chinese Mandarin oranges for this year.

The Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry should name the two companies, who are the 
proprietors, and the date the import permits were granted to them.

Before the Ministry of Trade and Commerce impose a total ban on the import of Chinese 
Mandarin from a third country, all importers should have been informed and allowed to 
place direct orders with the source in China.

The manner of the joint monopoly granted to the companies raises the question whether the 
Ministry of Trade had acted properly and honestly. There should be a full inquiry into the 
whole process of the Mandarin oranges scandal, and if necessary, even the 
Anti-Corruption Agency should be brought in.
 
