+++ 
title: "DAP to honour Tunku Abdul Rahman as Bapa Malaysia at DAP National Day Celebration on August 30 in Malacca"
date: "1985-08-19"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary- General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Monday, 19.8.1985_

# DAP to honour Tunku Abdul Rahman as Bapa Malaysia at DAP National Day Celebration on August 30 in Malacca

In conjunction with the National Day celebrations to be held in Malacca this year, the DAP will hold a 1985 National Day Celebrations Tea—party reception at Dewan Hang Tuan, Malacca on 30th August 1985 at 5.30 p.m.</u>

The DAP will honour the first Malaysian Prime Minister, Tunku Abdul Rahman, at the DAP National Day Tea-Party Reception for his unsurpassed contribution to the country and people of Ma1aysia

The DAP believes that National Day should be a national occasion for promoting the national spirit and unity helping Malaysians to focus on our common heritage and destiny.

Tunku Abdul Rahman has become a national institution and asset as the father—figure of all Malaysians, and he has agreed to attend the DAP National Day Tea—Party Reception to honour him, striking out on a new frontier in bridging national differences not only of race, religion, culture but also politics.

The DAP will present Tunku Abdul Rahman with a special souvenir at the National Day Tea—Party Reception, and he has also agreed to address the gathering.

Invitations to the National Day Tea-Party Reception to honour Tunku would be sent to all political parties inside arid outside the Barisan Nasional,

Foreign Missions and civic organisations to make it a most unique end memorable National Day occasion.

The DAP has set up a 1985 National Day Celebrations Committee under the chairmanship of DAP National Vice Chairman, Dr. Tan Seng Giaw, and comprising the following:

	Chairman: Dr. Tan Seng Giaw (DAP National Vice Chairman and MP for Kepong)

Vice Chairman: Fadzlan Yahya (DAP National Vice Chairman and Assemblyman for  
                                                    Pasir Bedemar)

Secretary : P.Patto		(DAP Deputy Secretary – General)

Assistant Secretary: Sdr. Lai Keun Ban (DAP Malacca State Secretary and Assemblyman 
           for Durian Daun)
			      N. Madhavan Nair  (DAP National Youth Vice Chairman)

	Treasurer: Fung Ket Wing	(DAP National Assistant Treasurer and MP for 
Sandakan)
	Asst. Treasuret: Sim Tong Hin 	(DAP Malacca State Treasurer)
	Committee Members:
		Sdr. Gooi Hock Seng
		Sdr. Lau Dak Kee
		Sdr. Ahmad Tom
		Sdr. Lee Kaw
		Sdr. Hu Sepang
		Sdr. Liew Ah Kim
		Sdr. Lip Tuck Chee
		Sdr. Sim Kwang Yang
		Sdr. Dr. Oon Hong Deok
		Sdr. Mohd. Isa

 
