+++ 
title: "Lim Kit Siang to raise problems of Chinese Education in Parliament next month"
date: "1971-11-24"
tags:
+++

_DAP Malacca State Organising Secretary, Mr. Lim Kit Siang issued the following statement:_

# Lim Kit Siang to raise problems of Chinese Education in Parliament next month

The DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, will raise the problem of Chinese Education in Parliament which begins sitting on December 8.

Mr. Lim has submitted 100 question, 29 foe oral and 71 for written reply. He has also submitted three Motions and five adjournment speeches.</u>

The questions on Chinese Education which he has tabled are:

1.	To ask the Minister of Education whether the Government has banned the proposed Merdeka University project; if are, to give reasons for the ban; and if not, to state whether he would receive a delegation from the sponsors of the project to discuss the matter.

2.	To ask the Minister of Education whether he could give a categorical assurance that the government would never convert the National-type (Chinese) primary Schools and the National-typed (Tamil) primary schools into national primary school

3.	To ask the Minister of Education whether his Ministry proposed to restore the Chinese Senior Middle Three Examination for students in Chinese secondary schools.

4.	To ask the Minister of Health whether the government would consider granting legal status to qualified Chinese physicians, with rights such as to register for practice as medical officer, sign medical and death certifixates, use certain instruments necessary for treatment and to obtain and prescribe any medicine they feel necessary. 

Mr. Lim has submitted notice for an adjournment speech calling on the government to recognize the Nanyang and the Formosan degrees and qualifications, as such an enlightened policy will stop wasting scarce skilled manpower in which Malaysia needs for her technological and industrial advancement and will remove discontent and dissatisfaction among significant section of the population who feel that they are not given the recognition and treatment they are entitled to.
 
