+++ 
title: "Visit Pahang Statement"
date: "1971-10-12"
tags:
+++

_Statement by DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, in Kuantan on 12th October 1971 during a tour of Pahang, accompanied DAP National Vice Chairman, Daing Ibrahim bin Othman, DAP Deputy Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Kampar, Mr. Fan Yew Teng, and DAP Johore State Secretary and Johore State Assemblyman for Kluang, Mr. Lee Kaw._

The DAP has at present only one branch in Pahang at Triang. It is now our intention to expand the DAP into other parts of Pahang, and our present visits is to liaise with party sympathizers and supporters in Pahang with a view to set up more branches.

Last night, we set up a protem committee for the Mentakab DAP Branch, and on our return to Kuala Lumpur we will apply for registration of Mentakab DAP Branch.

We will announce formation of Kuantan and Bentong DAP Branches when all the details have been finalised.</u>

The DAP calls on the people of Pahang to unite behind the DAP to oppose the injustices and inequalities, inefficiency and corruption of to Alliance government.

The Alliance is afraid that if there are elections, towns like Kuantan, Temerloh, Mentakab, Triang, Bentong in Pahang, just like towns in other states like Penang, Ipoh, Kampar, Seremban, Malacca, Johore Bahru, will fall into opposition hands, particularly the DAP.

In the interest of the Alliance, and the MCA in particular, the government intends to kill grass-roots democracy as represented by elected Municipal, town and local councils, even when this step will produce most inefficient, incompetent, and corrupt local councils.

If the people do not unite and oppose the government’s undemocratic measures, then the government will step by step destroy even more of the people’s very limited democratic rights.

The DAP therefore calls on the people of Pahang to join their fellow Malaysians in other states like Penang, Perak, Selangor, Negeri Sembilan, Malacca and Johore to rally behind the DAP and fight for a more just and equal society, where there is genuine democracy, economic justice and cultural freedom.
 
