+++ 
title: "Tun Razak’s Parliament Statement on China"
date: "1971-07-27"
tags:
+++

# Tun Razak’s Parliament Statement on China

In his Ministerial foreign policy statement in parliament yesterday, the Prime Minister, Tun Abdul Razak, said:

“On the bilateral level, our relations with China at present will be at the unofficial level dealing with trade matters. The question of establishing diplomatic relations will have to be considered as a separate matter at a later date.”

This is where the DAP disagrees with the government’s policy on China.</u>

The Prime Minister’s statement evinces no desire on the government’s part to take any initiative to work towards the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Malaysia, apart from the continuance of unofficial trade relations.

The DAP calls for a new China foreign policy which is aimed directly and specifically at the establishment of diplomatic relations with the People’s Republic of China.

Let Malaysia declare that she is prepared to enter into discussions with the People’s Republic of China on the question of establishment of diplomatic relations without any preconditions on Malaysia’s part.

Tun Razak said in his Ministerial statement that his government regards China’s exclusion from the international and regional arena as “unhealthy, unrealistic and short-sighted.”

The DAP therefore calls on Tun Razak to instruct the Malaysian delegation to the forthcoming United General Assembly to play a positive and leading role in getting the People’s Republic of China not only seated in the United Nations, but occupy the permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council which rightly belongs to the People’s republic of China, but had been illegally usurped by the Formosan regime with the connivance and collusion of the majority of the countries in the world – including Malaysia.

Taiwan is part of Chinese territory. This is an international fact, which the Malaysian government should admit and accept. The Malaysian government should also accept that the problem of Taiwan is one which should be left to the Chinese themselves to decide.

As the Prime Minister made his foreign policy statement in a Ministerial statement, which under the Parliamentary procedures permit no debate, I call on the Prime Minister to allow a full debate in parliament on these important, wide-ranging and fast-changing issues concerning foreign policy matters like China, neutralization, Five-Power Defence Agreement, etc.
 
