+++ 
title: "DAP National Campaign to raise the standard of constituency performance of MPs and SAs"
date: "1971-10-10"
tags:
+++

_Press Statement by DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka on 10th October 1971._
# 
DAP National Campaign to raise the standard of constituency performance of MPs and SAs

Two weeks ago, at the close of the two-day National DAP Policy Seminar in Seremban, I stressed the importance of every DAP elected representative being a good Member of Parliament and State Assemblymen.

This was the start of the DAP national campaign to raise the standard of constituency performance of DAP Members of Parliament and State Assemblymen throughout the country.</u>

The DAP Central Executive Committee is serious in its objective to develop a team of MPs and State Assemblymen who are dedicated to the cause of their constituents, the country and party.

We welcome to public to help us improve our constituency service in DAP Parliamentary and State Assembly areas by offering criticisms, suggestions and ideas.

Beginning next week, I shall begin the first of a tour of all DAP Parliamentary and State constituencies in the country. The objective of my tour is:

1.	To check on the constituency service of the Member of Parliament and /or State Assemblyman for the area;

2.	To visit DAP Branches and meet DAP members in the Constituency and discuss (i) party problems and (ii) political problems of the country.

3.	To meet a small cross-section of the general public to get their views on (i) the DAP’s elected representative in the area (ii) the Party and 

(iii) political problems of the country.

	My programme of visit for this year is: 

Oct. 16, 17	: Visit to Serdang Constituency, Selangor 

Oct. 23, 24	: Visit to Bukit Nanas Constituency, Selangor

Oct. 30, 31	: Visit to Seremban Timor Parliamentary Constituency (inclusive of Rahang, and Sungei Ujong state constituency) in Negri Sembilan

Nov. 27, 28	: Visit to Penang Utara Parliamentary Constituency (inclusive of Kelawei, and Tanjong Bungah state constituencies)

Dec. 11		: Visit to Gunong Lambak state constituency in Kluang, Johore

Dec. 12		: Visit to Bukit Ramba state constituency in Malacca

Dec. 18, 19	: Visit to Bungsar Parliamentary constituency

Another project in the DAP national campaign will be a two-day seminar for all DAP Members of Parliament and State Assemblymen in Kuala Lumpur on November 13 and 14. The theme is: “How we can raise our standard of constituency service to the people”.

Meanwhile, the Central Executive Committee of the Party, at its meeting yesterday, has served notice on two State Assemblymen of the DAP to show cause why they should not be suspended or expelled as a member of the Party for consistent flouting of Party discipline and neglect of constituency duties.

 
