+++ 
title: "Fund-raising for Sedition Case against Dr.Ooi Kee Saik and Sdr.Fan Yew Teng"
date: "1971-03-11"
tags:
+++

# Fund-raising for Sedition Case against Dr.Ooi Kee Saik and Sdr.Fan Yew Teng

Too All Branches

The sedition case against Dr.Ooi Kee Saik and Sdr.Fan Yew Teng is coming up before the Sessions Court on March 29, 1971.

We are applying for the case to be transferred to High Court to be heard by a judge. We are also making an application for the admission of Queen’s Counsel, Sir Dingle Foot, to appear for Sdr.Dr.Ooi Kee Saik.

Retained for Dr.Ooi is also Mr.Peter Mooney. Dato. S.P.Seenivasagam will defend Sdr.Fan Yew Teng.</u>

The Party leadership is determined to leave to stone unturned to engage the best legal counsel for our comrades charged with sedition, because it is not only Dr.Ooi and Sdr.Fan who are on trial, the DAP and the cause of Malaysian Malaysia are also on trial.

Very high stakes for the DAP are involved in this sedition case. We need your help to enable us to engage the best legal counsel to defend Dr.Ooi and Sdr.Fan, and the DAP as a whole, as the government has the power to deregister a party whose officials have ‘habitually’ been convicted of sedition.

The retention of Sdr Dingle Foot will be the biggest item of expenditure. We need in the region of $60,000 at least.

I therefore appeal to all branches to raise funds for this important case. Very branch should aim at raising $1,000/-by every available means.

The money can be forwarded to Sdr.Dr.Seeveratnam, who is chairman of the Legal Fund or to Dr.Chen Man Hin, Sdr.Goh Hock Guan or to myself.

The money is needed urgently, and should be forwarded by March 29.

Fraternally,

(Lim Kit Siang)

Secretary-General
 
