+++ 
title: "Report on Inspection Tour of Bukit Nanas Constituency"
date: "1971-10-23"
tags:
+++

_Report by Secretary- General on inspection tour of Bukit Nanas Constituency on Oct.23 and 24,1971_

1.	Programme

On Oct 23, from 12 p.m to 5 p.m. and from 8 p.m to 9 p.m, visited Kanpong Pudu Lama, Peel Road squatters, Jalan Pudu main road, and night hawkers at Jalan Bukit Bintang.

On Oct 24, from 9 a.m to 1 p.m, visited Bukit Bintang market, Pudu market, Jalan Imbi Kampong Dollar settlement. (No programme for afternoon as I had attend one-day Kuala Lumpur seminar). At night, joint meeting with Pudu DAP and Bukit Bintang DAP Branches.

Punctually: Strict observance.</u>

2.	Criticism and comments

I was accompanied during the entire tour by Sr. Lee Lam Thye Assemblyman for Bukit Nanas. During the tour, members of the public and party members were asked to freely criticize and comment on constituency performance of the incumbent DAP Assemblyman.

i)	Constituency service of Sdr. Lee Lam Thye very satisfactory.

ii)	The hawkers in Bukit Nanas clearly hold a very high regard for Sdr.Le  because of his tireless championing of their cause.

iii)	His conscientious service is praised by the people.

iv)	There is one criticism of Sdr. Lee: In his over-emphasis over constituency work, he has neglected his national party responsibilities. This he must correct.

3.	Branches

Two branches in the area: Pudu DAP Branch and Bukit Bintang DAP Branch.

One thing which impresses me is that there is a very great spirit de corps among the committee members of the two branches. This makes for very lively, throbbing branches.

During my constituency tour, I notice that many youngster are great supporters of DAP Branches must draw up a scheme to recruit these young, idealistic-minded Malaysians to join our ranks.

I note that branches in Selangor are growing up away form each other, instead of growing up together. This is undesirable, We must prevent not only a growing apart between branches in one state growing apart, the members of one branch hardly knowing the members of another branch.

The officials of Selangor State Sub-Committee should look into this problem, and no a state basis, organize activities which will get members in all branches in Selangor to get to know each better, for the spirit of comradeship to grow and flourish.
 
