+++ 
title: "MCE Results-low percentage of passes"
date: "1971-04-02"
tags:
+++

# MCE Results-low percentage of passes

The low percentage of passes in many of the leading schools in the country in the recent MCE examination results is a matter of grave concern to all Malaysians, particularly to parents and students.

The DAP calls on the government to give an explanation and analysis of the reasons for the abnormal fall in the percentage of passes in the MCE examination in Malaysia’s leading schools throughout the country.

The government should release figures as to how many candidates had failed the MCE because of the compulsory Bahasa Malaysia paper.
The position where candidates who had several distinctions in the MCE but not making the grade because of their failure in the compulsory Bahasa Malaysia paper is a very serious one.</u>

This calls for a thorough review of the examination and education system to work out immediate remedies.

If the main reason for the low percentage of passes in the schools is because of the compulsory Bahasa Malaysia paper, then there are two immediate remedial measures which the government should give serious consideration:

(1) to set a repeat paper in Bahasa Malaysia in the next few months for those who had failed the examination just because of their failure in the Bahasa Malaysia paper;

(2) immediate review of the education system to ascertain whether the high percentage of failure in Bahasa Malaysia is because to inadequate and poor facilities to teach the subject in secondary schools, as not having enough teachers qualified and competent to teach the Bahasa Malaysia in secondary schools.

It is inconceivable that candidates should do well in all other subjects except in Bahasa Malaysia, if there has been enough competent and qualified teachers in Bahasa Malaysia.

Students should not be penalined by having their future wreaked if the fault lies squarely on an education system which is not genred to prepare the students for the Bahasa Malaysia paper.

The Ministry of Education has not given this matter the serious attention it deserves. The DAP calls on the Minister of Education to immediately direct a review and assessment of the MCE results, and take immediate measures to remedy the situation if the people’s confidence in the education and examination system is not be shattered.
 
