+++ 
title: "DAP calls for review of Standard V Assessment Examination 1971"
date: "1972-07-26"
tags:
+++

_DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, today issued the following statement._

# DAP calls for review of Standard V Assessment Examination 1971 to find out why there are such a high percentage of failures among national primary school students in science and mathematics despite Government’s emphasis on these subjects.  


The mass failure of Standard V students in last year’s Assessment Examination is indeed unbelievable, as they hit all language-stream primary schools.

A study of the overall results show, however, that the Tamil and Chinese primary schools have done badly compared to national-type (English) primary schools and national primary schools.</u>

What is more shocking is that there are schools where not a single student could pass the Standard V Assessment Examination.  

The detailed results of the national primary schools are, though better than Chinese and Tamil primary schools, poor by themselves. What should concern Malaysians is their generally poor performance in science and mathematics subjects, considering that the key to the breakthrough of Malay poverty and backwardness must be science and technology.

There is at present in the Universities over-emphasis of Malay students taking up arts and religious subjects. This must be corrected and rectified for what the country needs is more scientists, technologists and professional men, and not more religious teachers and art graduates.

It is therefore highly disappointing that we see the national primary schools failing to provide the necessary grounding for Malay pupils to catch up in science and mathematics subjects to enable them in university to pursue professional courses.

Thus, this following is the percentage of failures in science and mathematics subjects in last year’s Std V Assessment Examination for national primary schools:

1971 Standard V Assessment Examination Results
(percentage of Failures)

Mathematics				Science
Kedah	62.29%			Kedah	54.54%
Trengganu	61.01%			Kelantan	53.52%
Pahang	60.37%			Trengganu	52.34%
Kelantan	60.37%			Pahang	51.02%
Selangor	55.04%			Johore	43.94%
Johore	54.73%			Selangor	41.83%
Perlis	53.19%			Perlis 	40.34%
Negeri 				Negeri 		
Sembilan	52.25%			Sembilan 	40.07%
Malacca	49.92%			Malacca	38.02%
Perak	40.63%			Penang	35.61%
Penang	37.90%			Perak	35.10%

Thus, from above results, 38- 63% of the Malay primary students failed the mathematics paper and 35% to 55% failed the science paper, when we make a comparison on a state-by-state basis.

This is not the way to help the Malay students to master the key of science and technology to make a breakthrough to a modern life and break away from poverty and backwardness. What the education system is doing is merely to put the Malay pupils in school without teaching them anything useful for their use in adult life, whether to find better jobs or lead a better life.

The result of the national primary school in other subjects of last year’s Std V Assessment Test is also not encouraging:

Percentage of Failures

Bahasa Malaysia II				Bahasa Inggeris I
Kelantan	39.47%				Kedah	62.90%
Kedah	38.37%				Trengganu	60.67%
Trengganu	36.58%				Kelantan	58.52%
Pahang	34.69%				Pahang	58.18%
Johore	29.80%				Johore	55.28%
Perlis	26.83%				Perlis	54.40%
Perak 	26.09%				Negeri
Malacca	25.27%				Sembilan	49.81%
Penang	25.3%				Selangor	49.37%
Selangor	24.22%				Malacca	47.94%
Negeri 					Penang	37.90%
Sembilan	23.91%				Penang	32.82%

History- Geography

Kelantan	52.80%
Pahang	51.05%
Kedah	50.81%
Trengganu	50.48%
Johore	45.29%
Negeri
Sembilan	43.24%
Selangor	40.49%
Malacca	40.63%
Perlis	39.40%
Perak	35.10%
Penang	32.32%

The mass failures of Malay primary students in all the subjects of the last year’s Assessment Test are a course rave concern. There is something basically wrong with the entire education system at present, for the mass failures are taking place in all language-stream primary schools.

It is plain that if the primary base of our children’s education are weak, their secondary and university education are going to be gravely affected.

There is grave need for the government to awake up from its indifference and appoint a Royal Commission of Inquiry into the low standard and quality of education in Malaysia primary and secondary schools.

However, educationists whether from Malay, Chinese, Tamil or Indian streams should not wait for the government to act, which may take a long time. They should take it upon themselves to convene a meeting of Malaysian educationists to discuss and find ways and means of overcoming the grave problem of low quality and standards of Malaysian education. They owe it to themselves, to their profession as educationists, to the school children and to the nation to take this initiative.
 
