+++ 
title: "DAP welcomes re-consideration by the Prime Minister, Tun Abdul Razak, on the question of the recognition of Nantah, Formosan degrees and qualifications"
date: "1972-12-23"
tags:
+++

_DAP Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr Lim Kit Siang, today issued the following statement: _

# DAP welcomes re-consideration by the Prime Minister, Tun Abdul Razak, on the question of the recognition of Nantah, Formosan degrees and qualifications.

The nation-wide reaction to the announcement by the Minister of Education, Datuk Hussein Onn, three days ago that the government has decided to continue to discriminate against the Nantah and Formosan degrees and qualifications is one of dismay and condemnation.</u>

I am glad that the Prime Minister, Tun Abdul Razak, has suggested a reconsideration of the question of the government recognition of Nantah and Formosan degrees and qualifications.

The question of the recognition of Nantah and Formosan degrees and qualifications have been so long-outstanding for over a decade that it should not be allowed to drag on any further.

The 8,000 Malaysians who hold Nantah and Formosan degrees and qualifications have been discriminated in their own country long enough, and it is time that this imbalance in the recognition of university degrees and qualifications should be rectified and restructured to have a just Malaysian society.

The MCA, as a partner in the Alliance government, must take full responsibility for the government refusal to accord recognition to Nantah and Formosan degrees and qualifications. I do not see any purpose of MCA Ministers, Assistant Ministers and Members of Parliament continuing to hold their positions if they cannot even bring about such recognition. Are the MCA Members, Assistant Ministers and Members of Parliament in the government to serve the people or to serve themselves?

I know that such a call will bring dismay to the many self-serving politicians in the Alliance and MCA. I am therefore not surprised that the first to react with pain is the Malacca MCA leader, Datuk Tan Cheng Swee, who will lose his State Executive Councillorship of Malacca and his position as the nominated Commissioner of the Malacca Municipality.

Let me advice Datuk Tan Cheng Swee: If you think that your position is more important than your work for the people, and that you want to do cling on to position even if you can do nothing for the people but a lot for yourselves, go ahead. The people are not fools and they will draw their own judgment.

Finally, let me reiterate: Those in government who cannot fulfill their pledges to the people, not continue to put self interest above the interest of the people, and must take a stand on principles. This, the MCA can only do honourably, qualifications, by resigning from all their elected posts at all levels of government.
 
