+++ 
title: "Credentials for Special Delegates’ Congress"
date: "1972-07-12"
tags:
+++

# Credentials for Special Delegates’ Congress

Further to my circular to you dated 2nd July 1972 on the convening of a Special Delegates’ Congress to ratify the June 18 decision of the Central Executive Committee to purge the party of all destructive and disruptive elements, and to end all acts of indiscipline, this is to inform you of the credentials arrangements for the Congress:

1.	Every delegate must possess a credential identification card before he is allowed entry to the congress meeting place at Dr. Chen Man Hin’s residence at No.8, Jalan Swettenham.</u>

2.	The credential identification card is issued by the DAP Headquarters.

3.	The credential identification card will begin to be issued to accredited delegates at the DAP Seremban Branch Office at No. 29, Jalan Wilkinson from 8.30 a.m. to 9.30 a.m. on Sunday, 16th July 1972.

4.	It is only after collection of the credential identification card that a delegate may proceed to the congress meeting place and given entry.

5.	Every delegate must be a paid up member of the Party.

6.	CEC Member, Sdr. Chian Heng Kai, will be the officer in charge of the issue of credential identification cards at Seremban DAP Branch on Sunday.

7.	Delegates are advised to collect their credential identification cards early so that there will not be a rush concentrated at 9.30a.m.

8.	For those who have transport problems, transport arrangements will be made to take delegates from the Seremban DAP Branch at Jalan Wilkinson to the Congress meeting place.

9.	Delegates are reminded to be punctual, as the Congress will start on time. 

10.	 Finally, for the information of delegates, the Seremban DAP Branch is organising a fund-raising anniversary dinner on the night of 16th July, and delegates are welcome to join the dinner on subscription basis. Those who are interested should immediately contact Sdr. Oh Keng Seng of Seremban DAP Branch.
 
