+++ 
title: "DAP’s new plan for Selangor and Bungsar"
date: "1972-07-28"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr.Lim Kit Siang, when addressing the inaugural meeting of the Bungsar Liaison Sub-Committee at 63-D Jalan Sultan, Kuala Lumpur on Friday, 28th July 1972 at 7.30 p.m._

# DAP’s new plan for Selangor and Bungsar

The DAP Special Delegates Congress, when it unanimously endorsed the decision of the Central Executive Committee on June 18 to expel Goh Hock Guan from the party, gave as one of its long list of reason Goh Hock Guan’s “failure to provide the leadership expected of him as Chairman of Selangor DAP State, in which position he was the cause of greater disunity and division in Selangor.”</u>

The DAP leadership is determined that after the historic decision of the CEC of June 18, 1972, there is no split or disintegration in the Party, but there is instead, a new spirit and new impulse in the expansion in the DAP.

Plans are now afoot to completely reactivate and reorganize the Selangor DAP so that it resumes its place as the premier state for the DAP. Before 1969, Selangor set the pace for the expansion of the DAP in the country. With re-organisation, Selangor should be able to regain this prominent place in the Party.

For this purpose, the Central Executive Committee has decided to establish an Interim Selangor State Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of Sdr. Fan Yew Teng, to plan and execute the re-organisation and re-emergence of the Selangor DAP as a highly motivated, highly-united and spirited political machinery.

There are not only new plans for the Selangor DAP, there are also new plans for the Bungsar constituency. Although with the expulsion of Goh Hock Guan from the party, the DAP has technically speaking no more M.P. or State Assemblyman in Bungsar constituency, the DAP will never shirk from its responsibility and duty to the people of Bungsar who had solidly given their vote for the Rocket in 1969.

This is why the Party has made special arrangements to have Sdr. Lee Lam Thye, DAP State Assemblyman for Serdang, and Sdr. Lau Dak Kee, Assistant National Organising Secretary, to serve in turn the people of Bungsar at the Jalan Sultan office.

We also have plans for the Party to establish even deeper roots in the Bungsar constituency. The establishment tonight of the Bungsar Liaison Sub-Committee, which will co-ordinate the activities of all branches in the Bungsar area, is the first step in this direction. The DAP Bungsar Liaison Sub-Committee will draw up a blueprint to ensure not only the DAP’s success in Bungsar in the next general elections, but to secure an-even greater majority.  
 
