+++ 
title: "A letter of protest to General Manager of Bernama entitled "False Bernama Report""
date: "1972-06-02"
tags:
+++

# The DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, has yesterday sent a letter of protest to the General Manager of Bernama, calling for an inquiry into a false Bernama report using his name without authority or basis. His letter reads:

Lim Kit Siang,
Secretary-General DAP,
77 Road 20/9,
Paramount
PETALING JAYA.
2nd June 1972.</u>

The General Manager, 
Bernama,
Wisma Belia,
Jalan Lornie,
KUALA LUMPUR.

Sir,

False Bernama Report

Today’s Nanyang Siang Pao carried a Bernama report quoting me as making some comments and forecasts about the Ulu Selangor by-election result.

I had not spoken to any Bernama reporter on the Ulu Selangor by-election, and it is highly shocking that the Bernama, a public agency, should stoop so low and so unethically as to concoct comments in my name.

We in the DAP had never expected fair play and coverage from Bernama , as it is no more than a Alliance agency to spread government news and belittle and even slander the DAP. But we had never expected that the journalists in Bernama would stoop so low as to concoct untruths and attribute them to DAP leaders.	

I had not made any comments or forecasts of Ulu Selangor by-election, believing that the opening of the ballot box is the only time to know the actual outcome. This is why I had not, when contacted by the local press, given any comments or forecast to a news agency which is biased against the opposition.

I would request you to make an inquiry into my very serious accusation that Bernama has made up stories without any basis whatever, and I would expect a report of your inquiry, as to what action is being taken against the person responsible, and what action will be taken to prevent the recurrence of such reprehensible action.
If I cannot get a satisfactory explanation, then I will pursue this matter further by other means.

Yours sincerely,

(Lim Kit Siang)
Secretary-General DAP

Issued by DAP Information Bureau,
77 Road 20/9,
Paramount Garden,
3rd June 1972 
 
