+++ 
title: "To second the motion in the Dewan Rakyat to repeal Clause 21(2) of the 1961 Education Act to guarantee the continued existence, development and expansion of Chinese primary schools."
date: "1974-04-03"
tags:
+++

# Letter to Tun Tan Siew Sin and Dr. Lim Chong Eu to second the motion in the Dewan Rakyat to repeal Clause 21(2) of the 1961 Education Act to guarantee the continued existence, development and expansion of Chinese primary schools.

I have given notice to the Speaker of the Dewan Rakyat that I propose to move a motion calling for the repeal of Clause 21(2) of the 1961 Education Act when Parliament reconvenes on from April 15 to May 3.

I have also today written to the President of the Malayan Chinese Association, Tun Tan Siew Sin, and the President of the Gerakan Rakyat Malaysia, Dr. Lim Chong Eu, whether they are prepared to second this motion.</u>

I am aware that the Alliance Government had refused to provide time in Parliament for Opposition Members of Parliament to move and debate opposition motions.

However, if Tun Tan or Dr. Lim Chong Eu, as members of the National front , Government, are prepared to second this motion, then I am sure that this motion would be given time for debate.

On Dec. 29, Tun Tan Siew Sin told to a special MCA meeting of its branch and state official in Kuala Lumpur, that the mc would ‘sink or swim’ with Chinese primary schools.

So long as Clause 21(2) of the Education Act empowering the Education Minister to convert it with a stroke of the pen at his own discretion remains on the statute books, there can be no guarantee or surety that Chinese primary schools would be allowed to exist, grow and develop.

The preparedness of Tun Tan to second this motion, which would effectively safeguard and ensure the continued existence, growth and development of Chinese primary schools, would be an acid test of Tun Tan’s sincerity on this score.

This motion would also give Dr. Lim Chong Eu to declare his stand on this very crucial issue.
 
