+++ 
title: "DAP to fight and expose National Front parties at next elections"
date: "1974-03-04"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, to the Serdang Liaison Committee at a meeting held at Serdang Bahru DAP Branch on Monday, 4th March 1974 at 8 p.m._

# DAP to fight and expose National Front parties at next elections

On Saturday, in a talk to the Guild of Graduates of Kuala Lumpur, Dr. Lim Chong Eu accused all those who are opposed to the National Front and coalition governments as ‘anti-national’.

Throughout human history, those who have lost an argument or have no arguments, always restore to name-calling and abuses, as a substitute for reason. Dr. Lim Chong Eu is the latest example.</u>

By making such inane statements, Dr. Lim was not only insulting the intelligence of university graduates in Malaysia, but also exposing his own lack of political depth and hollowness.

Of course, to Dr. Lim Chong Eu, whoever opposed him is anti-national. Fifteen years ago, when Dr. Lim Chong Eu was forced out of the MCA Presidency, he must have at that time thought that Tunku Abdul Rahman and Tun Razak were ‘anti-national’ as they both supported Tun Tan Siew Sin against him.

One of these days, I would love to hear Dr. Lim Chong Eu branding Tun Tan and the whole MCA gang, like Lee San Choon, Lee Siok Yew as ‘anti-national’ as they are countering Dr. Lim’s master-plan to replace Tun Tan Siew Sin in the Alliance top echelon.

The national Front is just an expended Alliance. It is old wine in new bottles. The policies of the National Front are precisely the same as the policies of the Alliance.

The only difference is that Tun Razak has roped in some formerly opposition parties to give his government an impression of greater representation and broader base.

Dr. Lim Chong Eu, was elected into office in Penang on the platform of rejection of Alliance policies and their replacement by a new nation building policy which can really unite the multi-racial people in Malaysia and transform Malaysia into a prosperous and just society.

Although Dr. Lim Chong Eu was elected into office on the promise to other people for drastic policy changes, The Alliance policies have no changed. Only Dr. Lim Chong Eu has changed. This is why he is in the National Front.

As large sections of the people of Malaysia in the last general elections rejected the Alliance policies, giving the Alliance the biggest electoral defective Malaysian parliamentary history, and as these policies are the same policies being pursued by the National Front, the DAP can have nothing whatsoever to do with the National Front or the concept of coalition government, whether at the Federal, State or at any other level.

The DAP remains firmly opposed to the entire National Front as an Alliance in a different clothing, and it shall be our duty and responsibility to fight the National Front parties at the next general elections, to expose their true character, their anti-people policies, and give the people of Malaysia a chance to record in no uncertain manner their hopes, aspirations and yearnings as to the type of Malaysia they want themselves and their children to live and die in.
 
