+++ 
title: "DAP calls on Minister of Labour, Lee San Choon, to set up a unit to find jobs for Malaysians who have resigned from Singapore Police and Armed forces and returned to Malaysia"
date: "1975-02-18"
tags:
+++

# DAP calls on Minister of Labour, Lee San Choon, to set up a unit to find jobs for Malaysians who have resigned from Singapore Police and Armed forces and returned to Malaysia

I have come across large numbers of Malaysian youths who had resigned from their jobs in the Singapore Police or armed forces and returned to Malaysia, but who have continued to be unemployed for over a year, and in some cases, for over two years.

These Malaysian youths, who are mostly in their twenties, had a secure job in the Singapore Police Force or the armed forces. However, in 1972 and 1973, the Malaysian government said that Malaysians serving in the police or armed forces of foreign countries are not loyal to the country, and their citizenships may be withdrawn.</u>

Thousands resigned or left their positions in the police or armed forces, (many of them deserting from armed forces making them liable to court martial if they are caught), showing their loyalty to Malaysia and country.

However, the overwhelming majority of these youths are unable to find jobs after returning to their homeland for over a year. When the Malaysian Government told them to return to Malaysian, they were told that they should have no difficulties in finding employment in their homeland. In fact, the original reason of Malaysian youths joining Singapore armed or police forces is purely economical, to find a job to stay alive.

The Malaysian Government is duty bound to help this large group of helpless Malaysian youths who have given up a secure job to return home in response to the government’s call. I call on the Minister of Labour, Dato Lee San Choon, to set up a special unit in his Ministry, and register all those Malaysians who have resigned from Singapore armed or police forces, and still unemployed, and find alternative employment for them, either in firms, industries or allocating land in FELDA or other land schemes of the government.

I hope that the MCA, MIC and the Gerakan and their leaders and representatives in the Cabinet and the State Governments will give this problem their special attention as the majority of these youths are Malaysian Chinese or Malaysian Indians, Dato Lee San Choon and Tan Sri Manickavasagam raise this matter at the Cabinet level.
 
