+++ 
title: "DAP calls on Tun Razak to direct the National Bureau on Investigations (NBI)"
date: "1975-08-10"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Secretary- General and Member of Parliament for Kota Melaka, At the 2nd DAP MPs and state Assemblymen’s Seminar held at 63-D Jalan Sultan, Kuala Lumpur on Sunday, 10th August 1075 at 10 a.m._

# DAP calls on Tun Razak to direct the National Bureau on Investigations (NBI) to investigate and act on the allegations of corruptions made by Berjaya leaders, who were for mere Sabah State Minister, about corrupt practices by the Tun Mustapha government.

“Following the rift between Tun Mustapha and the faction which has formed the Berjaya, Berjaya leaders, several of whom were Sabah State Ministers, and the president, Tun Fuad, was in fact, the Yang di-Pertua, had on several occasion made serious allegations of corruption by Tun Mistapha and his government.</u>

These allegations of corruption were made by Tun Mustapha’s former Ministors, who should know what they are talking about, having been in the inside of things, so to say.

Corruption is the biggest curse in Malaysian public life, for it undermines the integrity of the public service and put government services in the marketplace, purchasable with every bribe.

Since such high-level allegations of corruptions had been made by ex-Sabah State Ministers, I call on the Prime Minister, Tun Razak, to direct the NBI to investigate all the allegations of corruptions that the Berjaya leaders had made against the Tun Mustapha government, and to ask for all the evidence of corruption and other malpractices in Berjaya hands, so that the Central Government can show to the people and the world that it is really intent of ridding corruption.

Now that the Berjaya has been accepted into the National Front, The allegations of the Berjaya leaders should be given even more serious consideration, unless the Berjaya leaders were to renege and withdraw all the allegations of corruption hurled against Tun Mustapha.

Dato Hussein Onn, when opening the UMNO Youth Conference in May, pledged that the government would act fearlessly against corruption, regardless of the position, status, wealth or power of the person concerned. These are his actual words:

“Penyelewengan juga berbentuk penglibatan setengah ahli politik dalam perbuatan rasuah. Penyelewengan juga berlaku dalam bantuan Kerajaan kepada rakyat. Penyelewengan seperti ini jika tidak dibasmi boleh terus- menerus berlaku dan menjadi perkara yang kekal. Tugas penting bagi kita ialah mempastikan bahawa penyelewengan ini dibongkar dan didedahkan tanpa mingira siapa melakukannya- si kancil atau naga.”

The government’s sincerity and earnestness in its fight against corruption is now on public test. I will be writing to the Prime Minister, Tun Razak, to ask him whether he would direct the NBI to make such a investigation.
 
