+++ 
title: "“Do as I say but don’t do as I do""
date: "1968-06-17"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Organising Secretary, Mr. Lim Kim Siang, at the Pudu DAP branch on Monday, June 17 at 8 p.m. Pudu DAP Branch is the latest branch in Selangor to be registered. It is the 15th branch in the Selangor._

# “Do as I say but don’t do as I do”

The Minister of Education, Inche Khir bin Johari, has call on teacher unions to draw up a code of ethics as soon as possible.

He claimed that there are many “unethical practices” among teachers.

Inche Khir bin Johari is deliberately vague about his charges of “unethical practices.” 

Unless these “unethical practices” are spelt out publicly, Inche Khir bin Johari's charge can only be regarded as his latest in a long series of attempts to demoralise and undermine public confidence in the teachers. This can benefit no one, apart from, Inche Khir bin Johari.</u>

What Malaysia definitely needs is a code of ethics for politician, because of numerous “unethical practices” by politicians.

We can specify these "unethical practices". I will list a few:

*Abuse of government machinery, personnel and finance by the ruling party during general elections to helps its party election campaign;

*UMNO,MCA and MIC propaganda that if people want land they must join the ruling party. Otherwise, land will not be given out.

*Government grants to building of new temples, and then housing of MCA branches in them, as in Batu Pahat, Johore;

*Distribution of PPNs and other national honours to party hacks of the ruling party, whose sole merit is active party work;

*Denial of use of public halls in new villages by MCA leaders to opposition parties;

*Spreading false and malicious rumors and lies about opposition parties.

There are many other “unethical practices” of politicians. The DAP had more than one called for all-party committee to draw up a code of conduct for politicians, particularly for the general elections period, to ensure that politicians in Malaysia is conducted on a clean, honest and proper level.

The Alliance has always refused. What the Alliance leaders are telling the people is: “Do as we say, but don’t do as we do”

I can give another example of hypocrisy of Alliance politicians.

I heard over the radio news this evening that the Minister of Education, Inche Khir Johari, has scolded Malay parents for treating National Schools as “second class” schools.

He wants Malay parents to send their children to national school. Commendable sentiment.

But can he reveal whether any Cabinet Minister, Assistant Minister Parlimentary or Political Secretary of UMNO has sent their children to National Schools. Let the public know. How many children all cabinet Members have, and how many of them are in National Schools?

Again, this is an attitude of: “Do as I say, but don’t do as I do”. What Malaysia wants are not preachers who don’t practice what they preach. We want leaders who will set an example of leadership and performance for the people to follow.
 
