+++ 
title: "Another Alliance Govt Low Cost Housing Scheme"
date: "1968-09-06"
tags:
+++

The advertisement # “Another Alliance Govt. Low Cost Housing Scheme” at the Circular Road low-cost housing scheme is an unashamed attempt by the Alliance Party to make use of government money and resources to advertise itself to win votes at the next elections.

This clearly shows that the government does not know the difference between government and party. It is also for this reason why we have no faith in the next general elections.

As in the past, the Alliance Party will make use of public funds, resources and even personnel to help in its party campaign, before and during general elections.

This is in the same class as when government Ministers go around schools before general elections to distribute money to buy votes.</u>

The Minister of Local Government and Housing, Mr. Khaw Khai Boh, builds so few houses that he felt necessary also to advertise every flat as an Alliance achievement, to compensate for the inefficiency and lack of results of his Ministry.

What is also noteworthy is that the advertisement is that the advertisement is in four languages. When it comes to boosting its party’s image, the Alliance uses four languages. But when it comes to public convenience, as in government correspondence, it only permits Malay.

This is unprincipled and opportunistic.

We call on the government to immediately remove the advertisements, which are an eye-sore to the city and a shameful example of the government abuse of public resources for party ends.
 
