+++ 
title: "Reprieve of death penalty to the eternal credit of Malaysia"
date: "1968-08-25"
tags:
+++

_The DAP Organising Secretary, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, today issued the following statement:_
# 
Reprieve of death penalty to the eternal credit of Malaysia

The commutation of the death sentence of the 11 Johore youths to life imprisonment is to the eternal credit of the Sultan of Johore and the Prime Minister, Tunku Abdul Rahman.

They have brought honour to our national image in the world, and proved that we are a nation of mercy, compassion and humanity.</u>

All Malaysians, regardless of party politics, class, race, religion or age, who had joined in the campaign one way or another to save the lives of the condemned, are united in their gratitude to the Sultan of Johore and the Prime Minister for their great humanitarian act.

Thanks to the Sultan of Johore and the Prime Minister, the Malaysian nation has emerged from her moral crisis, which it was plunged during the entire period when the youths were on the threshold of the gallows, a more wholesome nation.

With the Sultan’s reprieve, the hopes and wishes of decent Malaysians and the liberal conscience of the world have been answered.

The DAP Deputy Secretary-General, Daing Ibrahim bin Othman, on behalf of the DAP Central Executive Committee, has sent the following cable to the Sultan of Johore:

“Your Royal Highness,
  Sultan of Johore.

Reprieve of 11 youths great humanitarian act. All Malaysians eternally indebted to Your Highness for your dispensation of mercy.

								Daing Ibrahim bin Othman
								DAP Deputy Secretary-General”

Daing Ibrahim also sent the following cable to the Prime Minister, Tunku Abdul Rahman:

“Tunku Abdul Rahman,
 		 Prime Minister.

Your intervention brought honour to Malaysia in all countries and for all times. Please also use your good offices to secure reprieve from death penalty for Mohammad Noor bin Login and Mohamed Sidek bin Mohamed Nor in Perak for same offence.

								Daing Ibrahim bin Othman,
								DAP Deputy Secretary-General”.

We in theDAP fervently hope that the Sultan of Perak will be able now to exercise his prerogative of mercy to spare the two Malay youths from death at the gallows.
 
