+++ 
title: "Lim Kit Siang names foreigner directing alliance and MCA general elections propaganda campaign"
date: "1969-05-01"
tags:
+++

_Statement by DAP Organising Secretary and Parliamentary Candidate for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, on 1st May 1969:_

Tun Razak and Tun Tan Siew Sin denied that a foreigner is directing Alliance and MCA general elections propaganda campaign. He wants me to name him.

The foreigner is Mr. Wu Ling Yu, self-acclaimed “expert on anti-communist tactics and strategies for 20 years.

I challenge Tun Razak and Tun Tan Siew Sin to answer the following eight questions:</u>



<blockquote>1.	 Is it not true that in September 1967, Malaysia joined in convening and the establishing the CIA sponsored World Anti-Communist League?

2.	Is it not true that one of the conditions of membership to the CIA sponsored World Anti-communist League is that every League member nation should accept into its country so-called ‘anti-communist China’ experts to direct, supervise and overseer its foreign policy, political and cultural development and economic decisions?

3.	Is it not true that Mr. Wu Ling Yu slipped into Malaysia six month ago, and proceeded immediately to brainwash alliance and MCA cadres and officials by holding political courses and seminars for them?

4.	Do Tun Razak and Tun Tan Siew Sin agree that Mr. Wu Ling Yu, being foreigner, has meddled and interfered with local Malaysian politics by giving ‘brain washing’ political courses to Alliance and MCA officials; and if so, why Mr. Wu Ling Yu was allowed to do so without impunity?

5.	Was Mr. Wu Ling Yu’s stay in Malaysia the result of the World Anti-Communist League condition, which posted its agents to all League member nations to direct the nation’s internal affairs?

6.	Is it not true that one of the first tasks of Mr. Wu Ling Yu was to work out a final plan to destroy Chinese education, and give a fitting climax to Mr. Koh Kim Leng’s Abdul Rahman Talib Education Report, to systematically destroy Chinese schools?

7.	Is it not true that Mr. Wu Ling Yu is now masterminding the Alliance and MCA general elections propaganda campaign, and is in effect touring the country, and has come to Malacca, during his tour of duty?

8.	Is Mr. Wu Ling Yu a CIA agent?</blockquote>



I hope Tun Razak and Tun Tan Siew Sin will answer the above eight questions truthfully and frankly. I also demand a public inquiry into the circumstances leading to Mr. Wu Ling Yu’s entry into Malaysia, his real duties and work, his connections if any with the CIA. Only such a public inquiry, with DAP representation, can satisfy the public that the Alliance government has not allowed a foreigner not only to run the alliance party elections campaign, but even to influence the country’s foreign policy, political and economic policy, and even cultural policy.
 
