+++ 
title: "Lim Kit Siang wants every MCA Candidate to make his stand on Lew Sip Hon’s Aziz Commission Report"
date: "1969-04-18"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Organising Secretary and Parliamentary Candidate for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, at a DAP Public Rally in Muar on Friday, 18th April 1969 at 8p.m._

# Lim Kit Siang wants every MCA Candidate to make his stand on Lew Sip Hon’s Aziz Commission Report and declare what are the recommendations they consider as unreasonable, and for which they are prepared to resign from MCA if implemented.
	
MCA Candidates everywhere are saying that if there are recommendations in Lew Sip Hon’s Aziz Commission Report which are unfair and detrimental to Chinese education and teachers, the Alliance government will not implement them. But the voters of Malaysia cannot be so easily fooled and deceived by the MCA candidates.
	
If the MCA Candidates are sincere in the above statement, then I want every MCA Candidate to let the Malaysian public know what each of them think are the unreasonable provisions in what each of them think are the unreasonable provisions in Lew Sip Hon’s Aziz Commission Report which the Alliance Government will not implement, or if the government implements, for which they are prepared to resign from the MCA in protest.</u>
	
Let every MCA Candidate declare his stand on the unreasonable provisions in Lew Sip Hon’s Aziz Commission Report, if they are really concerned about the fate of Chinese Education and language if the Aziz Commission Report is implemented. Let every MCA Candidate make a public stand within 48hours, whether he be Dato Chua Song Lim of Muar, Mr. Tan Peng Khoon and Mr. Lee San Choon of Segamat, or my opponent in Bandar Melaka Parliamentary seat, Mr. Koh Kim Leng.

There is one particular recommendation in Lew Sip Hon’s Aziz Commission Report which I want every MCA Candidate to make a stand. Whether they support Mr. Lew Hip Hon’s recommendation that the 20,000-odd Chinese school teachers should be dismissed if within three years they could not pass the Senior Cambridge Examination or F.M.C.
	
Nobody really believes that the Alliance government will not implement the unfair recommendations in Lew Sip Hon’s Aziz Commission Report. If the Alliance is capable of doing this, then it would not have implemented the even more unfair recommendations of Mr.Koh Kim Leng’s Abdul Rahman Talib Report, which condemned to death all Chinese, English and Tamil schools.
	
Did the Alliance government say they will not follow Mr. Koh Kim Leng’s recommendation in the Abdul Rahman Talib Report to Mr. Koh Kim Leng’s recommendation to destroy Chinese, English and Tamil schools, and even rewarded Mr. Koh Kim Leng with a Parliamentary seat to contest in this general election.
	
During the colonial days, even the English colonial masters dare not tell the Chinese that they could not study in Chinese schools. But today, in an independent Malaysia, which is supposed to be a multi-racial society, the MCA and Mr. Koh Kim Leng dared to tell the Chinese that their children cannot study in Chinese schools! Did any MCA Candidate oppose this heinous and infamous Abdul Rahman Talib Report. Not a single one. Everyone of them, including Dato Chua Song Lim, Mr. Tan Peng Khoon, Mr. Lee San Choon , supported it, and want to deny the children of Malaysian Chinese the opportunity to study in Chinese schools.
	
May 10 will be the judgement day for this group of people who are prepared to sell their language, education, culture for personal position, privilege and name. let the people of Malaysia vote in full force to sink the Alliance boat and put Rocket into orbit, to build a Malaysian Malaysia!
 
