+++ 
title: "The death of D.R. Seenivasagam"
date: "1969-03-16"
tags:
+++

# The death of D.R. Seenivasagam

The Secretary- General of the Democratic Action Party, Mr. Goh Hock Guan, today made the following statement on the death of D.R. Seenivasagam:

“The death of D.R. is a loss to the country and to us who are his friends, D.R. has earned a secure place in Malaysian history as a great fighter for justice, equality, and the legitimate rights of all the people that make up Malaysia.

“Whether it be to save the life of a grenade girl or to defend the fundamental rights of Malaysians or to hound down those who abuse their powers, D.R. has pursued his objective with a gusto that was the delight of his friends and the terror of his foes.</u>

“We in the DAP mourn the loss of a dear friend and comrade. We shall miss him and we shall remember him.”
	
The DAP Member of Parliament for Bungsar, Mr. C.V. Devan Nair said:

“Above all, he will be remembered for his courage, both inside the house of Parliament and outside it. His death will prove a sad loss to opposition politics in Malaysia. Corrupt politicians in the country will sleep easier in their beds now that D.R. is no more.”

The national Chairman of the DAP, Dr. Chen Man Hin, said:

“Malaysians have lost a champion of the people’s cause for free speech, incorrupt government and fair play.

“D.R.’s untimely death will be mourned by all Malaysians.”

The DAP Organising Secretary, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, said:

“With D.R.’s death, Malaysia has lost one of her greatest sons.

“For 15 years, D.R. was the most outstanding opposition leader against the excesses of Alliance power, corruption in high public life and for the most eloquent advocate for cultural social, economic and racial equality.”
 
