+++ 
title: "DAP accused Alliance and MCA of having a foreigner, to direct its general elections propaganda campaign"
date: "1969-04-27"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Organising Secretary and Parliamentary Candidate for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, at the 7th DAP Public Rally at Bandar Kaba on Sunday, 27th April 1969 at 9p.m._

# DAP Accuses alliance and MCA of having a foreigner, who is probably a CIA agent, to direct its general elections propaganda campaign

In the past one week, Tun Tan Siew Sin, Inche Khir Johari, Inche Musa Hitam, running short of materials for speeches and statement, have individually invented tales of foreigners meddling with Malaysian politics by siding with the Opposition.
	
When they were challenged to substantiate their allegations, they hut up their mouth and having nothing else to add. This clearly expose the emptiness of their allegations, which are sheer fabrications to confuse the people and discredit the Opposition.</u>
	
But I know that a foreigner is directing the alliance and MCA elections propaganda campaign. And I have strong reasons to believe that this foreigner is a CIA agent.
	
This foreigner has slipped into Malaysia for about six months, and his duties appeared to be:

1.	BRAINWASH all MCA cadres and officials to serve the American interest in Asia, by turning them into fanatical anti-communists;
2.	CHART out a detailed plan to destroy Chinese language, education and culture in Malaysia;
3.	MASTERMIND the Alliance and in particular, the MCA, general elections propaganda ele campaign;
4.	OVERSEER the formulation of Malaysian foreign policy to ensure that it does not conflict with American interests, and that it remains irrationally anti Communist China.

We demand to know why this foreigner, who is not a Malaysian and not serving Malaysian interest, should be given powers to interfere and meddle with Malaysian politics, foreign policy, education and cultural policy.

It seems that the Alliance government have now to take direct directives in the formulation of foreign policy from this foreigner. Why did the Alliance government bargain away their right to determine an independent foreign policy?

Is this the result and the price of Malaysia’s joining the American-Formosan sponsored World Anti-communist League in September 1967?

In September 1967, the at a secret meeting in Formosa, Malaysia took part in convening the World Anti-Communist League with America, Formosa, South Vietnam, South Korea, and other reaction reactionary governments.

One of the objective of the World Anti-Communist League was to work for the overthrow of the communist regime in China, to actively support every anti-communist measure of Chiang Kai Shek in his futile dream to regain China from Mao Tse Tung, and be slaves of American interest.

One of the resolutions of the World Anti-Communist League Conference in Taiwan committed every League member to receive and accept anti-Communist china expert, who are definitely CIA agents, to ensure that the Leagues members do not waver in their declaration to serve American interests, and support the decadent Chiang Kai Shek regime.

In return for mortgaging Malaysia’s sovereignty at this World Anti-Communist League Conference, the Americans must have promised and given financial assistance.

But no self-respecting nation or leader who would be prepared to be sell on his nation’s sovereignty for anything.
I want an explanation from the Alliance Government. Unlike, Mr. Tun Tan Siew Sin, Inche Khir Johari and Inche Musa Hitam, I am prepared to name the foreigner I mention, if the Alliance challenge me.

I call on the Alliance government to expel this foreigner from Malaysian soil, for interfering with local Malaysian politics, and to immediately withdraw from the World Anti-Communist League, and free herself from the coils and trap of American interest, and be free again to decide independently her own foreign policy.

I also call for the immediate recognition of Communist China, and her admission to United Nations serve Malaysian support. Malaysian should not oppose Communist China’s admission just because she has teamed up with reactionary interests in Asia in September 1967.

I also call for a public explanation from Tunku Abdul Rahman as to why Malaysia  joined the World Anti-Communist League, without consulting or informing the people, and what price this nation paid for this participation. 
