+++ 
title: "Lim Kit Siang reveals details of Alliance committing Malaysia in the World Anti-Communist League"
date: "1969-05-08"
tags:
+++

_Statement by DAP Organising Secretary and Parliamentary Candidate for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, at a Press Conference on 8th May 1969 at 12.30p.m._
# 
Lim Kit Siang reveals details of Alliance committing Malaysia in the World Anti-Communist League

Two days ago, at a public rally at Bagan Ajam, Butterworth, the Minister of Education, Inche Khir Johari, denied a DAP charge that the Alliance had drawn Malaysia into the CIA-sponsored World Anti-Communist League.

This Is what Inche Khir Johari said: “this is far from the truth. We have never been a member of this league.”
</u>
In today’s press, the Alliance headquarters again denied that Alliance had taken Malaysian into the CIA-sponsored World Anti-communist League.

Inche Khir Johari knows that the alliance has taken Malaysian into the CIA-sponsored World Anti-Communist League, but he is trying to deceive the Malaysian public. Now that Inche Khir Johari has been caught red-handed, Inche Khir Johari should resign from the political arena in disgrace. 

We cannot afford to have politician, and even worse, a Minister of Education, who is found out to be a public liar.

I have here to official proceedings of the First conference of the World Anti-Communist League, held in Taipei, from September 25 – 29.

The Malaysian delegation was a high level delegation from the ruling Alliance Party. It was led by Tan Sri (Senator) T.H.Tan, the eminence grise in the Alliance. We all know Senator T.H.Tan is the right hand man of Tunku Abdul Rahman, and more powerful than any other MCA official.

The other Malaysian delegate Inche Hussein bin Mohamed Nordin, UMNO Secretary-General from 1951 - 1963, and Member of Parliament for Parit.

Both Tan Sri T.H.Tan and Inche Hussein bin Mohamed Nordin gave their official address at the World Anti-Communist League Conference as ‘c/o Alliance Hq., UMNO building, Jalan Tuan Abdul Rahman, Kuala Lumpur.’

So how can Inche Khir Johari and the Alliance Headquarters deny that the Alliance has taken Malaysia into the CIA-sponsored World Anti-Communist  League.	

In fact, at the Taipei meeting in 1967, Malaysia tried unsuccessfully to be elected into the Executive Board of the World Anti-Communist League, but failed to secure election.

At the World Anti-Communist League, Tan Sri T.H.Tan spoke, and here are some of the things Senator Tan Sri T.H.Tan said there:
“in the view of the Malaysia delegation, it is fitting that the great nation of the Republic of china is playing host to the First Conference of the World Anti-Communist League. The Republic of China has become the greatest protector of freedom in Aziz against the trepidations of Communism.”
Malaysia is a charter and founder member of the CIA-sponsored World Anti-Communist League.

I challenge Tunku Abdul Rahman, Tun Razak, Tun Tan Siew Sin, and even Inche Khir Johari  to deny this.

Tan Sir Sri T. H. Tan even served on the Political Affairs Committee of the World Anti-Communist League Conference, which produced some of the most shocking resolutions.

One of the resolutions co-authored by Tan Sri T.H.Tan on behalf of Malaysia was entitled: “Resolution on Support for the Chinese People in Accelerating the Downfall of the Chinese Communist Regime,”

This resolution bound every League member nation, including Malaysia, to help in the overthrow of Mao Tse Tung and the Chinese Communist Regime.

Can Tan Sri T.H.Tan, or for that matter, Tunku Abdul Rahman, Tun Razak, Tun Tan Siew Sin, overthrow Mao Tse Tung, and topple the Communist Chinese regime in China?

This is sheer lunacy. This is why we say that the Malaysian government should not charge China of interfering with Malaysian local affairs, when she is herself interfering with Communist China’s internal affairs, and even pledge to help overthrow Mao Tse Tung.

Under Tan Sri T.H.Tan’s advice, the World Anti-Communist League also passed a resolution calling on all nations to oppose Communist China’s admission into the United Nations.

It was also Tan Sri T.H.Tan’s Political Affairs Committee which got another resolution to be adopted. This resolution bound every League member nation to accept. This resolution bound every Leagua member nation to accept ‘anti-communist China’ experts to run the country’s political and foreign policy affairs.

I had few days ago called for an inquiry into the circumstances and connections of a foreigner, Mr. Wu Ling Yu, because I suspect Mr. Wu Ling Yu’s coming into Malaysia is the result to the World Anti-Communist League Conference resolution.

I also wanted a public inquiry to ascertain whether Mr. Wu is a CIA agent.

But up to today, the government has not done anything. It is proved to have a foreigner running the alliance and MCA elections campaign, and directing Malaysian foreign and national policy. Now, I have produced evidence to prove that in 1967, the Alliance ruling party took Malaysia into the CIA-sponsored World Anti-Communist League.

I want: 

(1) Inche Khir Johari to resign from politics because he has proved to be a liar;

(2) Tunku Abdul Rahman and Tun Razak and Tun Tan Siew Sin to immediately declare Malaysia’s withdrawal from the CIA-sponsored World Anti-Communist League;

(3) Remove Tan Sri T.H.Tan’s Senatorship, because he has acted against Malaysian nation interest, in committing Malaysia with the CIA-sponsored activities.

(4) Deport Wu Ling Yu for interfering in local political affairs. Tunku Abdul Rahman had declared that the Alliance government will not allow foreigners to interfere in local politics. The Prime Minister must now prove it with deeds by deporting foreigner Wu Ling Yu from Malaysia.

(5) A full public inquiry into T.H.Tan’s associations and connections arising from the CIA-sponsored World Anti-Communist League, and into Wu Ling Yu’s real work and connections in Malaysia.

I hope Tunku Abdul Rahman, Tun Razak, Tun Tan Siew sin, and the eminence grise of the Alliance, Tan Sri T.H.Tan have not sold out Malaysian interest in return for admission into the CIA-sponsored World Anti-Communist League.

Whatever it is, the Alliance leaders must now tell the people the truth, and stop deceiving the electorate. The nation and people of Malaysia have a right to know the truth!
 
