+++ 
title: "Will Inche Harun bin Hashim take action if a Cabinet Minister is a director of a private firm?"
date: "1969-03-12"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Organising Secretary, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, at a DAP Public Rally at Jalan Meru, Klang on Wednesday, 12th March 1969 at 8p.m._

Four nights ago, at a public rally at Gemas Bahru in Segamat, Johore, I asked the Prime Minister, Tunku Abdul Rahman, and the Director of Anti-Corruption Agency, Inche Harun bin Hashim, whether it was proper for a Cabinet Minister to be one and the same time a director of a private firm.

There is no reply from the Prime Minister. However, the Director of Anti-Corruption Agency, Inche Harun bin Hashim, told a local Chinese press, Malayan Thung Pao, that the legal position was very clear that a Cabinet Minister could not be a director of a private firm at one and the same time.

Inche Harun also said that if I have any information, I should give it to him directly.

I am prepared to give him information, directly and publicly. But before I do this, I want an assurance from him that on receipt of my information, he would institute immediate investigations and take all the necessary actions – and that he would not allow the Cabinet to interfere or veto with his investigations and duties.</u>

Has Inche Harun the unfettered power to carry out his duties, even if they involve Cabinet Ministers? This is where the public are skeptical.

But if Inche Harun can give the public assurance that he has the power to investigate into any case of a Minister who is at the same time a director of a private firm, and take the necessary actions, even to the extent of charging a Minister in court if there is a prima facie case of impropriety and corruption, I will furnish him with some information.
 
