+++ 
title: "Merdeka University Six Questions for Tun Tan Siew Sin"
date: "1969-04-19"
tags:
+++

_Press Statement by DAP Organising Secretary and Parliamentary Candidate for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, on 19th April 1969._
	
Today, the MCA Elections Committee issued a statement declaring that the MCA and Tun Tan Siew Sin do not oppose the Merdeka University, and that they do not oppose any affect by the people to set up a University.
	
Then I want Tun Tan Siew Sin to answer the following six question:

<blockquote>1.	Why did Tun Tan Siew Sin warn all MCA members and officials last December that they will be expelled from the MCA if they help in the Merdeka University project.
2.	Why did Tun Tan Siew Sin refuse to support the registration of the Merdeka University by the government.
3.	Why did Tun Tan Siew Sin instruct his Political Secretary, Mr. Bernard Lu, to announce in Sarawak last month that the Alliance government will never permit the registration of the Merdeka University.
4.	Why did Tun Tan Siew Sin instruct the Malacca State Authorities to ban hawkers from launching donation sales campaign in aid of Merdeka University?
5.	Why did Tun Tan Siew Sin show so much contempt for the efforts of hawkers, fishermen, teachers, workers, hair-dressers, trishaw riders, without his support and other millionaires like him, the Merdeka University will fail in the next 10 years.
6.	Why did Tun Tan Siew Sin say a few days ago that establishing the Merdeka University is like expecting ‘an iron tree to produce flowers’ betraying his disapproval and contempt for the project.</blockquote></u>

But we will give the MCA and Tun Tan Siew Sin another chance to make clear their stand on Merdeka University. Will Tun Tan Siew Sin announce within 48 hours that the alliance government will approve the registration of the Merdeka University? I am waiting for the answer, and the entire nation is waiting for the answer. 
