+++ 
title: "DAP not satisfied with Tun Tan Siew Sin’s denial that a foreigner is directing Alliance and MCA elections operations"
date: "1969-05-03"
tags:
+++

_Statement by DAP Organising Secretary and Parliamentary Candidate for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, on 3rd May 1969:_

The DAP, and the majority of Malaysians, will not be satisfied with Tun Tan Siew Sin’s weak and flat denial that a foreigner, Mr. Wu Ling Yu, is directing Alliance and MCA general elections campaign.

Tun Tan Siew Sin’s statement that Mr. Wu is not a CIA agent is also not convincing. Just because the Sunday Mail carried a report of Mr. Wu Ling Yu some months back is not proof that Mr. Wu is not a CIA agent. Nobody expects Mr. Wu to confess or declare that he is a CIA agent to newspaper interviews.

I have asked Tun Tan eight questions, but he is unable to answer a single one of them.

This is because neither Tun Tan, nor any Alliance leader, can deny that in September 1967, Malaysia joined in convening and establishing the CIA-sponsored World Anti-Communist League is that every League member nation should accept into its country so-called ‘anti-communist’ experts, with the intention to direct, supervise and overseer its foreign policy, political, cultural and economic decisions.</u>

I have called for a public inquiry into Mr. Wu Ling Yu’s real work and connections. If the MCA and Tun Siew Sin have nothing to hide, like mortgaging Malaysian interest to CIA, then it should welcome such a public inquiry to clear to its name.  Of course, in such a public inquiry, the DAP must be represented, for otherwise, the inquiry will become a farce.

Mr. Wu Ling Yu has been spending a lot of time in Malacca giving personal attention to the Alliance and MCA elections campaign in Bandar Melaka and Melaka Tengah. If this is not a foreigner interfering in local Malaysian politics, what is it?
I also know that Mr. Wu is particularly closely associated with some alliance and MCA leaders and officials, who I have also reason to believe are in CIA payroll.

Such a public inquiry will put an end to any CIA subversion in the alliance and the MCA. If the Alliance and MCA dare not set up such an inquiry, then the public must draw their own conclusions that for some price, the Alliance and MCA have given up their independence and right to determine the country’s policy and direction.
 
