+++ 
title: "Charge about the ‘unholy alliance between DAP and PMIP’ sheer fabrication!"
date: "1969-04-23"
tags:
+++

_Press Statement by DAP Organising Secretary and Parliamentary Candidate for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, on 23rd April 1969:_

# Lim Kit Siang describes Tun Tan Siew Sin’s charge about the ‘unholy alliance between DAP and PMIP’ as ‘sheer fabrication’!

Tun Tan Siew Sin’s charge that the DAP and the PMIP have reached an ‘unholy Alliance’ to fight the Alliance Party is sheer fabrication and a figment of Tun Tan’s overheated imagination.

The DAP has absolutely nothing in common with the PMIP, and we will not touch them with a barge-pole.

The DAP stands for a multi-racial, multi-lingual and multi-cultural Malaysia, while the PMIP stands for a Malay and Islamic Malaysia.
</u>
The only difference between the PMIP and the UMNO is this: The PMIP wants a Malay Malaysia immediately, while the UMNO are prepared to wait for ten or fifteen years to achieve a Malay Malaysia, and in the meanwhile make use of stooges in the MCA and MIC to give their basic objectives a cover of respectability.

Tun Tan Siew Sin cites the case of Bukit Rambai State Constituency in Malacca as proof of the unholy alliance between the DAP and PMIP.

Bukit Rambai State Constituency is predominantly a Malay constituency. Tun Tan claims that the DAP has entered the Bukit Rambai State Constituency to split the Chinese votes and enable the PMIP to win.

Let me tell Tun Tan Siew Sin: The DAP has not fielded to a single State or Parliamentary candidate to help anybody to win. We have fielded every candidate with the intention to win ourselves, including Bukit Rambai.

Tun Tan Siew Sin knows that the DAP stands the best chance of winning the Bukit Rambai State Constituency, because he has been to that area. This is also why the Alliance government has launched wide-ranging intimidation and high-pressure campaign against DAP activists and supporters. We will reveal the full details at the right time before May 10 General Election.
 
