+++ 
title: "Challenge to MCA to declare its stand on proposed abolition of elected Municipal, town and local councils"
date: "1971-11-09"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, at a DAP public rally in Segamat on Tuesday, 9th November 1971, at 9 p.m._

# Challenge to MCA to declare its stand on proposed abolition of elected Municipal, town and local councils

Up till today, the MCA has kept silent about the government’s proposed abolition of elected Municipal, town and local councils.

After the 1969 General Elections, the people were told that there is a new MCA, which is brave and dedicated to the interest of the people, unlike the old MCA which knows only how to kowtow to the orders of the Alliance government. The people were assured that the new MCA with a lot of new faces will bravely fight for the basic interests of the people, whatever the political price or the displeasure they may incur from the Alliance government.</u>

The proposed abolition of Municipal, town and local council elections is a step backwards, which will add to the many hardships and sufferings of the people.

The people who are going to suffer most when elections to Municipal, town and local councils are abolished will be the hawkers, the ratepayers, the poor townsmen.

Corruption, inefficiency and maladministration is going to rule in the overwhelming majority of appointed Municipal, town and local councils.

The DAP unqualifiedly condemns any proposed abolition of elected Municipal, town and local councils. I challenge the MCA leaders to give the party stand on this issue.

If the MCA continues to keep silent, then it must stand condemned for its cowardice and political opportunism.

 
