+++ 
title: "DAP MPs and State Assemblymen upgrade their constituency performance and service"
date: "1971-11-08"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, when officiating he opening of the Circular Road DAP Peoples’ Representatives Centre at 22 Jalan Pekeliling, Kuala Lumpur on Monday, 8th November 1971 at 6 p.m._
# 
DAP MPs and State Assemblymen upgrade their constituency performance and service

The official opening of the DAP Peoples’ Representatives Centre at Jalan Pekeliling, Kuala Lumpur is a major step in uniting the Party’s theory and practice of service for the people.

The Centre, which is jointly established by the Assemblymen for Penchala, Sdr. Hor Cheok Foon, the Member of Parliament for Setapak, Sdr. Walter Loh, the Assemblyman for Ampang, Sdr. S. O. Wong, and the Assemblyman for Sentul, Sdr. Lee Beng Cheang, is designed to serve not only the people in the constituencies of Penchala, Ampang and Sentul, but also to attend to the needs and difficulties of the people in other constituencies like Kepong and Kampong Bahru which do not have DAP elected representatives.</u>

This is a commendable idea, and with determination, perseverance and the spirit of service, I am sure this Centre can become a great friend of the people of Kuala Lumpur, where they can always go to for advice and help in times of difficulties.

The DAP Central Executive Committee recently launched a nation-wide campaign to upgrade the constituency service and performance of all DAP MPs and State Assemblymen, and although we are only at the opening stage of our campaign, I am glad to say that there is already a general upgrading of constituency service and performance by all DAP MPs and State Assemblymen.

I have visited three DAP constituencies, namely Serdang and Bukit Nanas constituencies in Selangor and Seremban Timor Parliamentary constituency in Negri Sembilan, to get first-hand information of DAP constituency performance and service. I shall be visiting all other DAP constituencies to complete the inspection tour. 

To many people in the Alliance and MCA, to be elected State Assemblyman or Member of Parliament is like striking a social welfare lottery. This particular lottery entitles them to $750/- or $1,000/- a month for five years.

They forget their election promises to serve the people, to try to help solve the people’s problems, difficulties and suffering.

We in the DAP do not want any such self-seeking Member of Parliament or State Assemblyman. This is why we have taken disciplinary action against a few State Assemblymen.

During this weekend, all DAP MPs and State Assemblymen will meet here for their third Seminar, on the theme “How DAP MPs and SAs can better improve their constituency service and performance.”

We will spare no effort to strike deep roots on the ground. When DAP is a people’s party, and we will constantly, ceaselessly return to the people for their advice, views, suggestions and inspiration.



 
