+++ 
title: "DAP calls for new China policy"
date: "1971-07-04"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Secretary-General Sdr.Lim Kit Siang, when he officially opened the Bukit Bintang DAP Branch on Sunday, 4th July 1971 at 2 p.m._
# 
DAP calls for new China policy

The DAP calls on the Malaysian government to stop its contradictory and hypocritical attitude towards relationship with the People’s Republic of China and adopt a new foreign policy on China.

At present, one the one hand, the Malaysian authorities and some local corporations and businessmen are making big dreams about the millions of dollars and fortunes they are going to make when they establish trading relations with China.</u>

On the other hand, the Malaysian government still treat the People’s Republic of China as an enemy of Malaysia.

At the last session of Parliament, the Prime Minister was asked a written question as to whether Malaysia would establish diplomatic relations with China. The Prime Minister’s answer, which has just been circulated to MPs, was as follows:

“The question of establishing diplomatic relations with the People’s Republic of China does not arise at the moment because that Republic is still pursuing an unfriendly policy towards Malaysia through hostile propaganda by the ‘Suara Revolusi Malaya’ and the guidance and support given to the terrorists along the border.

“Until the People’s Republic of People of China has changed her attitude towards Malaysia and has indicated her readiness to accept the principle of co-existence and non-interference in the internal affairs of states, the question of establishing diplomatic relations cannot be considered.”

Such an attitude can never lead to any normalisation of relationship between Malaysia and China, which would make a great contribution to the peace and stability in South East Asia.

A study of the history of the hostility, distrust and enmity between Malaysia and China will show that Malaysia is not completely free from blame in contributing to such a relationship. In fact, it was not long ago that Malaysia behaved as if she were the foremost bastion of the ‘Free World” to contain the Peoples Republic of China for the interest of the Americans.

Malaysia must have the foresight, courage and statesmanship to take the initiative to normalise relations between Malaysia and China.

The DAP therefore calls for a new foreign policy on China which will lead to the establishment of diplomatic and friendship treaties between the two countries.

Malaysia must take positive steps to pave the way towards such an objective by at lease the following five measures:

1.Lift travel restrictions between Malaysia and China;

2. Send an all-party fact-finding and goodwill mission to China;

3.Promote closer trade and cultural ties by having reciprocal visits of one another’s trade and cultural missions;

4. Give unequivocal support for the admission of the People’s Republic of China into the United Nations and her rightful place as a permanent member of the Security Council at the forthcoming General Assembly session of the United Nations;

5. Express Malaysia’s readiness to establish diplomatic relations with China, and preparedness to enter into discussions on it without any preconditions.
 
