+++ 
title: "Chinese Medical School"
date: "1971-07-29"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, in the Dewan Ra’ayat on the Medical Bill on 29th July 1971_
# 
Chinese Medical School

I wish to make a proposal with regard to the problem of shortage of doctors which this Bill is partly trying to solve.

As my colleague from Seremban Timor, Dr. Chen Man Hin, said yesterday, the People’s Republic of China has very successfully married the Western and the traditional Chinese medicine.

American and Canadian medical experts have reported of operations, including heart operations, without anaesthetios, but by the use of acupuncture which they had personally witnessed.</u>

Chinese traditional medicine, such as acupuncture, herbal medicine, medical gymnastics, medical breathing exercises, massage, bone-setting, have done striking work in many areas of internal medicine for many centuries. The traditional Chinese doctor can cure a vast number of both mild and severe diseases, many of which are refractory to the methods of scientific Western medicine.

I suggest therefore that Malaysia take a leaf from the example of the People’s Republic of China, and promote the study and use of Chinese traditional medicine in Malaysia.

First of all, I would suggest the Minister of Health lead a medical mission comprising both Western-trained doctors and traditional Chinese doctors to the People’s Republic of China to see for himself the latest advances in this marrying of Western and traditional Chinese medicine.

Secondly, as Chinese traditional medicine has made a great contribution to the health of the people of this country, not only to Chinese, but Malays and Indians as well, I suggest the government give it official recognition and fit the Chinese medical doctors into the government’s national health programme.

Thirdly, I suggest that the government establish a Chinese Medical School where the Chinese traditional medical science could be taught and advanced, research carried into it, and probably the beginning of the marrying of the two medical systems.

Alternatively, I would suggest that the Malaysian government co-operate in the establishment of an ASEAN Chinese Medical School, sited either in Singapore or Malaysia, to teach, study and advance the development of Chinese medical science.

I am sure that these steps will go a long way to contribute to the betterment of health for the people of Malaysia.

The government will have the people’s full support in its desire to stamp out quacks in the country. The government must shoulder the responsibility for not waking up to this problem of quacks earlier. This is because in the past quacks were smart enough to ingratiate themselves into the good books of top MCA and even Alliance leaders, in exchange for government acceptance.

I hope the government will now ruthlessly stamp out quacks who are a menace to society and a danger to life and health.
 
