+++ 
title: "The Goh Hock Guan Affair (3)"
date: "1972-06-20"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, when speaking to the Penang State Sub-Committee and branch representatives at Penang DAP State premises at Green Lane on Wednesday, 20th June 1972 at 8 p.m._
# The Goh Hock Guan Affair (3)

June 18, 1972 will go down in DAP history as one of our landmarks, the day when the DAP put a check to the internal decline by beginning a purge of destructive and disruptive elements in the Party.

When the Central Executive Committee met on June 18, 1972 the stocks of the DAP was at a low ebb.</u>

There was demoralisation among our party ranks caused by the betrayal and defection of some former DAP Members of Parliament and State Assemblymen which was partly induced by the breakdown of party morale, discipline and unity.

Among the public, there was growing cynicism about the credibility of the DAP leadership and its ability to withstand any test or crisis, and which would not wilt or melt under any pressure.

The DAP Central Executive Committee, after deep and penetrating consideration, decided unanimously to take positive and radical remedial measures to clean house, and purge away the weaknesses of the Party.

Although there will be temporary adverse publicity, with the removal of the causes and points of weakness in the Party, the Party will be healthy again and be in a position to surge forward as a significant political force in the country.

If the DAP leadership is to regain credibility in the eyes of the people as a serious-minded group of leaders, worthy of their trust and confidence, then it must be able to fulfil three conditions:

1.	PRESENT to the party, people and country a truly united, single-minded leadership, reflected in every aspect of party activity, public pronouncement and conduct.

This condition was absent pre-June 18, largely because of the wilful persistence of Goh Hock Guan to publicly challenge and flout basic party policy decisions, and his public exhibition of contempt and disregard for other members of the Central Executive Committee and party colleagues.

2.	RESTORE party discipline throughout the Party all down the line from the CEC to an ordinary member, with no exception to any person, whether because of his position, past or record.

This condition was again absent pre-June 18, largely because Goh Hock Guan, though Chairman of the DAP Disciplinary Committee, was the chief flouter of discipline by this violation of party decisions repeatedly, and his irresponsible conduct towards the Party.
 
