+++ 
title: "A new era for the DAP"
date: "1972-06-22"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Secretary- General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, when speaking to DAP Perak State Sub-Committee and branch representatives on Thursday, 22nd June 1972 at 8.00p.m._

# A new era for the DAP 

The Democratic Action Party has emerged stronger, more purposeful and effective following the Central Executive Committee meeting on June18, which decided to purge the Party of disruptive and destructive elements.</u>

The Central Executive Committee has received full backing of the rank-and-file and branches in the country, for they realize the importance of discipline and unity in the DAP if it is to continue to be a credible political force in our country.

In the past few days, some press and our political opponents have indulged in the past time of prophesying the doom and disintegration of the DAP.

It is now evident to the people and the country that the Democratic Action Party has remained solidly intact, united and resolute, with the membership fully rallied behind the Central Executive Committee.

There is no split in the Party, no break-up; and there is no going to be any split and break-up in the Party. This is proof of the basic inner strength and health of the Democratic Action Party, or if other political parties had been in our place, they would have disintegrated and be doomed.

The Democratic Action Party has started a new page in our political struggle, and in this new phase, we cannot permit doubters and waverers.

The Central Executive Committee is not looking back in its determination to rebuild a solidly united and disciplined political movement. Those who want to spread the seeds of division and distrust in the Party will be mercilessly purged.

The people have given support to the DAP in its struggle for a more just and equal, more democratic Malaysia, and we owe it to the people and the country that we cannot allow anyone to destroy the Party for inflated self-purged.

The people have given support to the DAP in its struggle for a more just and equal, more democratic Malaysia, and we owe it to the people and the country that we cannot allow anyone to destroy the Party for inflated self-importance.

The DAP is now firmly back into its political mission to strive for a Malaysian Malaysia and write a new chapter in the political history of the country.
 
