+++ 
title: "Truth’s eventual triumph in human affairs"
date: "1972-02-29"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, when addressing the Negri Sembilan DAP State Sub-Committee at a meeting held at DAP Seremban Branch on Tuesday, 29th February 1972 at 4 p.m.	_				

# Truth’s eventual triumph in human affairs

The world has just seen the end of mankind’s most significant and historic visit. For the teeming millions all over the world, who wish peace to war, co-operation to conflict among nations to solve mankind’s basic and intractable problems of hunger poverty, backwardness, ignorance and disease, President Nixon’s landing on China is more momentous and important than man’s first landing on the moon.</u>

President Nixon’s historic week-long visit to China opens a new page in international relations it also caps a new height of achievement in Mao Tse Tung’s 60-year political sacrifice and struggle to build a new China and a new world.

It is significant that the man who has paved the way for the normalization of relations between China and America was the man who twenty years ago, was one of the most ferocious American Cold War warriors and largely responsible for the rupture and poisoning of China-American relations.

This underscores all the more strongly the American acknowledgement that they have failed in the last twenty years to isolate, contain and topple the Communist regime in China, and that they have learnt the lesson that whether in international, national or human relations, truth must eventually triumph.

And the truth in this case is that the Communist regime is the legitimate government of China, and that Mao Tse Tung and his government is a force that cannot be ignored or isolated in world affairs.

Bangla Desh is another example of truth’s eventual triumph. It took more than twenty years before the 75 million people of Bangla Desh finally asserted and achieved the freedom and justice which they had been denied, though at great human cost and suffering.

Truth must eventually triumph whether in international, national or human relations. For us in the DAP, so long as we stand and fight for truth, justice and equality, however hard and arduous the struggle, however dark and formidable the path, and however great the suffering and sacrifices some of us may use have to go through, we shall triumph in the end.

Truth and history is on the DAP’s fight for a just, equal and genuinely multi-racial Malaysia. It is an incontrovertible truth that there can no be durable, viable Malaysian nation unless it is a multi-racial nation.

So long as we have courage in the face of adversity, endurance in the face of extremity, and conviction of our beliefs, we shall live to see the vindication of the truth we uphold – that Malaysia can only succeed and prosper if it is a genuine multi-racial, democratic socialist Malaysia.
  
