+++ 
title: "DAP Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, will ask the following questions when Parliament meets on Monday"
date: "1972-12-01"
tags:
+++

# DAP Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, will ask the following questions when Parliament meets on Monday.

1.	To ask the Prime Minister to report whether there had been any progress in the last three months towards the normalization of relationship between Malaysia and the People’s Republic of China; and whether the Malaysian Government is considering calling an ASEAN meeting to propose an ASEAN initiative to normalise relationship between the People’s Republic of China and the ASEAN nations in view of Premier Tanaka of Japan’s visit to Peking which has further opened up new possibilities in international relations in the world, and particularly in South East Asia.</u>

2.	To ask the Prime Minister whether the Cabinet has considered or studied any proposal for introducing compulsory national service for all Malaysian youths; and if so, to state the outcome of such consideration or study; and if not, to state whether it is the intention of the government to introduce compulsory national service for Malaysian youths and to state when and other detail.

3.	To ask the Prime Minister whether it is the intention of the Malaysia Government to withdraw form the Five-Power Defence Arrangements in order to prove Malaysia’s sincerity in wanting a neutralized South East Asia before seeking big-power endorsement, and if so, to state when this withdrawal from the Five-Power Defence Arrangements is likely to take place.

4.	To ask the Prime Minister whether Malaysia would withdraw fro the Asian and Pacific Council (ASPAC) which was designed to uphold unity and co-operation among non-communist states against communist nations

5.	To ask the Prime Minister whether Malaysia intends to establish diplomatic relations with North Vietnam.

6.	To ask the Minister of home Affairs to state the conditions imposed on Hamid Tuah in placing him under restricted residence at Pulau Langkawi, how long this restricted residence will be in force, and to state whether the government would restore Hamid Tuah to full liberty particularly in view of his advanced years, as he is in his sixties and in poor health.

7.	To ask the Minister of Communications to give a report of the number of cancellations and delayed departures of MAS in its first month of operation, giving details and reasons for each such cancellation or delayed departure; and to state why such cancellation or delayed departures could not been avoided.

8.	To ask the Minister of Education, in view of the parliamentary statement by the government early this year that the question of recognition of Nantah and Formosan degrees and qualifications would be decided and announced at the end of this year, whether this is still the case, and to state whether a definitive decision has been arrived at; and if so, to give details; and if not, to state the exact date when the government would be able to make the announcement.
 
