+++ 
title: "Question by Lim Kit Siang: To ask the Minister of Defence to give the following particulars with regard to the ammunition factory in Batu Arang"
date: "1972-08-09"
tags:
+++

_The DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, at yesterday’s Parliament session in the Dewan Rakyat, asked the Minister of Defence the following question:_

# Question by Lim Kit Siang: To ask the Minister of Defence to give the following particulars with regard to the ammunition factory in Batu Arang:

(i)	the percentage of foreign participation in the project giving the names of the country participating;</u>
(ii)	the number of workers employed, giving a racial breakdown;
(iii)	whether there are any expatriates employed, if so, how many, giving their names, countries of origin, status, remuneration and what steps are being taken to Malaysianise their positions; and
(iv)	the categories of ammunition which would be produced by this factory.

Reply by the Minister of Defence: The information sought on Sharikat Malaysia Explosive Sdn.Berhad are as follow:

(i)	Percentage or foreign participation:
Messrs Dynamit Nobel of Germany	-5%
Messrs Machine Tool Works Oerlikon
Burhle Ltd. Of Switzerland		-5%
 
(ii)	Number of employees-101 Malays, 15 Indians and 7 Chinese.

(iii)	No expatriates are employed by the Sharikat. There are however, 5 expatriates (experts) in the factory whose periods of stay ranges from 6 to 12 months. Their services are provided under the agreement to purchase machinery and these experts are responsible for the installation of machinery in the factory and the training of the Malaysian in the operation of the machinery. The question of Malaysianising their posts does not arise.

(iv)	9mm, 7.62mm, 5.56mm.
 
