+++ 
title: "The long-standing suffering of the people of Batu Pahat over their water supply"
date: "1972-09-23"
tags:
+++

_DAP Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, today issued the following statement: _

# The long-standing suffering of the people of Batu Pahat over their water supply

I have received numerous complaints from the people of Batu Pahat about the endless problem of their water supply.

There is no doubt that for a town of Batu Pahat’s else, the people of Batu Pahat has got the worst water service from the government.</u>

For the past two years, there had been a 12-hour rationing. The ratepayers of Batu Pahat do not know for how long they have to live under 12-hour water rationing – whether for another two, three or five years.

The people of Batu Pahat always get the worse of it, however, whether there is rain or shine. When there is no rain, water rationing is tightened. When there is rain, as last week, then the people of Batu Pahat get from the taps dirty, smelly, milky, and undrinkable water. In fact, last week, many people have great worries about the health dangers of the chalky water that comes out of the taps.

The authorities concerned seemed helpless to end this chronic water problem of Batu Pahat.

For the last 15 years, the people of Batu Pahat had regularly elected Alliance candidates to be their Member of Parliament and State Assemblymen. But what is their reward? Endless problems about water supply, either water rationing during normal days or undrinkable, dirty water during rainy seasons.

It is obvious to any layman that the state of water supply in Batu Pahat had been most unsatisfactory, and any government, Member of Parliament or State Assemblyman who has the welfare of the people at heart would have taken corrective measures many years back. This is after all the purpose of government – to antiolpate problems and solves them before they become a serious one.

The Alliance Government, the Alliance Members of Parliament and State Assemblyman have failed the people of Batu Pahat, by failing to care for their needs and welfare.

I have no doubt whatsoever that the water problems of Batu Pahat need never have arisen in the first instance if there is a conscientious and responsible government, and elected representatives for the area.

Be that as it may, the people of Batu Pahat have a right to know when their agency and suffering over the water supply will end. Whether they will have to live with the atrocious water situation for the next two, three or five years? I will like to know why the whole problem could not be solved within 12 months, if the government is sincere and earnest about its responsibility.
 
