+++ 
title: "Mass failure in Tamil primary schools"
date: "1972-07-25"
tags:
+++

_DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, Today issued the following statement;_

# The mis-education and mal-education of Malaysian students: Mass failure in Tamil primary schools

In the last two days, I had given the details of the mass failures during last year’s Standard V Assessment Test in Perak’s national primary schools, national-type (Chinese) primary schools, throughout the country, and Perak’s national-type (English) primary school.

I propose today to give the shocking results of the Tamil primary schools, where the rate of mass failures is even more disturbing.</u>

The state where the percentage of failure is highest is Perlis, where the failure rate among the Standard V Tamil student is 60% to 90%.

Thus, for the State of Perlis, the percentage of failure among Standard V pupils in the assessment Test last year from national-type (Tamil) primary schools is as follows:

PERLIS (Percentage of failure)
Bahasa Tamil	70%
Bahasa Malaysia I	60%
Bahasa Inggeris I	80%
Mathematics	90%
Science		90%
Geography-History	80%

Form such shocking results, it is clear that the Tamil school in Perlis are not fit to exist at all.

The results from other states are equally bad for other subjects. Thus, in Bahasa Tamil, following Perlis lead of 70% failures are Penang (52.48%), and Kelantan (47.92%)

In Bahasa Malaysia I, Penang topped the list of percentage with 65.72% followed by Malacca (62.14%), Perlis (60.00%) and Pahang (54.61%).

In Bahasa Inggeris I, Perlis led with 80% failures, followed by Selangor (67.52%), Penang (58.58%) and Malacca (52.30%).

The results in other subjects, like science, mathematics, and geography-history are equally shocking.

It is clear that the students in the national-type (Tamil) primary schools are being mis-educated or mal-educated. It is indeed shocking that 60% and over of the students do not know enough to pass a single subject.

This is a condemnation of the present education system, and Tamil education and educational bodies must stop its indifference and apathy and wake up to the seriousness of the problem and its consequences for the children in their post-school life.

I am giving the detailed results of the Std. V Assessment Test last year for national-type ( Tamil) primary schools in the belief that parents should know about at the quality and standard of education their children are getting in schools.

Standard V Assessment Test 1971 Results National-type ( Tamil) primary schools (Percentage of Failures)

Bahasa Malaysia I					  Bahasa Inggeris I

Selangor		71.90%				Perlis 		80.00%
Penang		65.72%				Selangor		67.52%
Malacca		62.14%				Penang		58.58%
Perlis		60.00%				Malacca		52.30%
Pahang		54.61%	                                       	Kedah		50.89%
Kedah	 	52.88%	                                       	Negri Sembilan 	49.10%
Perak 		50.39%	                                       	Pahang 		44.86%
Negri Sembilan	49.38%		                                Perak		41.87%
Kelantan		47.91%	                                       	Johore		40.83%
Johore		47.13%	                                       	Kelantan		37.50%

Mathematics				Science

Perlis 		90.00%				Perlis 		90.00%
Penang		72.19%				Perak		65.89%
Selangor 		62.65%				Pahang		64.02%
Kelantan		58.33%				Penang		50.28%
Malacca		55.62%				Trengganu		48.85%
Pahang		54.63%				Johore		48.82%
Kedah  		53.31%				Negri Sembilan	48.56%
Negri Sembilan	50.89%				Perlis		45.84%
Perak		41.35%				Kedah		43.77%
Johore		41.35%				Kelantan		42.65%








History-Geography					Tamil Language 

Perlis		80.00%				Perlis 		70.00%
Penang		71.76%				Penang		52.48%
Selangor		68.03%				Selangor		51.12%
Malacca		56.07%				Kelantan		47.92%
Negri Sembilan 	54.81%				Kedah		43.57%
Pahang		54.40%				Malacca		43.39%
Kedah		51.89%				Pahang		42.14%
Kelantan		47.92%				Negri Sembilan	36.97%
Perak		47.39%				Perak 		35.80%
Johore 		43.89%				Johore		35.73%

A study of these results shows not only very poor performance in all subjects, but reveals the shocking position where at least 36% of the students fail all subjects. Yet they are blindly forced to be promoted to Standard VI, for no purpose whatever.

There must be immediately remedial action by Tamil educationists and educational bodies, in collaboration with educationists and other educational bodies, to arrest the shockingly poor quality of education in our schools. For otherwise, we will only be training misfits for our society, who can only be unemployed and add to the social tension in our country.
	
I therefore urge Indian public opinion to take a lead to rectify this very grave educational and social problem of low quality and standards of education in our schools.
 
