+++ 
title: "DAP calls on Chinese educational bodies to launch a nation-wide inquiry"
date: "1972-07-24"
tags:
+++

# DAP calls on Chinese educational bodies to launch a nation-wide inquiry into the reasons for the mass failures in Chinese primary schools during last year’s Standard V Assessment Test

I am glad that the President of the Chinese Teachers’ Federation, Mr. Sim Moh Yu, in his speech to the National Chinese School B category Teachers’ General Meeting over the weekend, has expressed deep concern at the shockingly high percentage of failures among Chinese primary school students in last year’s Standard V Assessment Examination.</u>

I had had for some time tried to arouse public consciousness and concern over this very grave problem, but had until now been a lone voice in the wilderness.

As the Parliamentary session last May, I had asked the Minister of Education for the detailed results of the Standard V Assessment Examination last year, and it was only a week ago that I received the answer.

The results are indeed a shocker, for it showed that there had been mass failures in last year’s Standard V Assessment Examination in all language-stream primary schools.

A study of the results of the Chinese primary school students showed that they have done even worse, when compared to other schools. In fact, in the Chinese language subjects, all states accept Malacca had over 34% failures by Chinese school students.

The percentage of failures of Standard V students of Chinese primary schools on last year’s Assessment Test for the Chinese language is as follows:

	Perak		50.84%
	Pahang		49.59%
	Selangor		49.30%
	Negri Sembilan	41.23%
	Terengganu	41.50%
	Penang		40.57%
	Johore		40.30%
	Kedah		37.28%
	Perlis		36.96%
	Kelantan		33.89%
	Malacca		29.13%

For Bahasa Malaysia I, the Chinese primary school students failed even more miserably. In Pahang, 69.11% of the students failed, in Selangor, 66.3% and in Perak 60.75%.

For English, Selangor topped the percentage of failures, with 66.06%, followed by Perak with 60.66% and Pahang 61.09%. The performance of the Chinese primary schools in the other three subjects, science, mathematics and history-geography are also very unsatisfactory.

Parents, educators and the public have a right to know the results of the Standard V pupils in the Assessment Examination, to know how well or how badly they are faring.

It is highly regrettable that the Ministry of Education has deliberately chosen to keep the public in the dark about the Standard V Assessment Examination results, until I had asked for them in Parliament.

As it is in the public interest to know the results, I am giving the percentage of failures of Chinese school pupils in each subject:

Percentage of Failures in 1971 Std. V Assessment Examination National-type (Chinese) primary schools

Bahasa Malaysia I					Bahasa Inggeris I

Pahang		69.11%				Selangor		66.06%
Selangor		66.33%				Pahang		61.09%
Perak		60.75%				Perak		60.66%
Negri Sembilan	57.35%				Johore		56.62%
Johore 		55.25%	                                       	Trengganu		55.75%
Trengganu 	51.75%	                                       	Negri Sembilan 	55.38%
Perlis 		44.66%	                                       	Perlis 		51.13%
Penang		43.32%		                                Penang		50.44%
Kedah		40.81%	                                       	Malacca		45.81%
Malacca		39.00%	                                       	Kedah		44.02%
Kelantan		32.44%		                                Kelantan		40.10%

Mathematics				               Science

Selangor		42.17%				Selangor		35.99%
Pahang		42.04%				Perak		35.59%
Perak 		41.64%				Pahang		34.72%
Negri Sembilan	34.69%				Penang		30.96%
Trengganu		33.75%				Trengganu		28.75%
Johore		33.60%				Johore		26.86%
Perlis 		30.66%				Negri Sembilan	25.78%
Penang		28.69%				Perlis		25.25%
Malacca		26.20%				Kedah		24.77%
Kelantan		26.58%				Kelantan		16.28%
Kedah		23.22%





Geography-History

Perak		49.56%
Selangor		47.92%
Pahang		47.13%
Penang		43.11%
Johore		41.44%
Negri Sembilan	41.41%
Trengganu		36.75%
Perlis 		36.01%
Kedah		33.53%
Kelantan		31.39%
Malacca		29.36%

Any study of the results of the above six subjects of last year’s Standard V Assessment Test will show that the standards and quality of education in the V Chinese primary schools is shockingly low.

As a matter of fact, the same conclusion will have to be drawn when we study the Std. V Assessment Test results of other language-stream schools. This, however, is no matter for consolation for those who have the concern and interest of Chinese education at heart.

Unless the Chinese educationists, teachers and educational bodies take grave concern of this high percentage of failures in Chinese primary schools, then it will not be far off when the parents will have no confidence in sending their children to Chinese schools.

I therefore call on all Chinese educational bodies, especially the Chinese Teachers’ Federation and the Chinese School Boards of Management and Governors Federation, to launch a nation-wide inquiry to establish the causes for the mass failures in the Std. V Assessment Test last year among students of Chinese Schools.

Such an inquiry should be conducted through surveys, seminars, conferences, so that a wide spectrum of views and opinions could be sought to find ways to upgrade the standard of education in Chinese primary schools.

I would also suggest that the Chinese educational bodies should also liaise with the educational bodies of other language stream schools for this problem of low percentage of passes affects all primary schools.

This is a matter of grave urgency. I urge the Chinese educations, teachers and lovers to rise up to the challenge of the moment: to arrest the decline in the standard and quality of education in Chinese primary schools, and take steps to upgrade Chinese educational standards and quality.
 
