+++ 
title: "DAP condemns American bombing in North Vietnam and mining of North Vietnamese ports and call for their immediate halt and total American withdrawal from Vietnam"
date: "1972-05-11"
tags:
+++

# DAP condemns American bombing in North Vietnam and mining of North Vietnamese ports and call for their immediate halt and total American withdrawal from Vietnam

The DAP deplores and condemns the American bombing of North Vietnam and the mining of North Vietnamese ports.

It is a dangerous escalation of a war which will bring Asia and the world closer to a Third World War.</u>

The desperate action of President Nixon to order bombing of North Vietnam and the mining of North Vietnamese harbours is a disastrous admission of defeat not only of President Nixon’s once much-boasted Vietnamisation policy, but also of the total American war effort and intervention in Vietnam.

During the last decade, the Americans had lost nearly 50,000 youths in Vietnam and had spent in cash and military hardware $1,200,000 million (Malaysian) dollars to boost up a corrupt, decadent and puppet regime.

The stunning victories of the North Vietnamese army and the fall of Quang Tri has demonstrated that the billions of American dollars could not buy and develop that motivation, will power and discipline necessary for a people to stand up, fight and die for one’s cause.

It is another vivid demonstration of the fact that it is not possible to defeat ideas with bullets, but only with better ideas.

The Americans should halt their bombing of North Vietnam and mining of North Vietnamese ports, and withdraw all its troops from Vietnam and end its ill-fated armed intervention.

The people of Vietnam should be allowed to determine their own future, the type of government and nation they want.
 
