+++ 
title: "DAP determined to express the MCA conspiracy"
date: "1972-09-10"
tags:
+++

_Message by DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, to the seminar on ‘Falling education standards of Chinese primary schools’ organised by the DAP Chinese Education Sub-Committee organised in Malacca on Sunday, 10th Sept, at 7.30a.m._

# DAP determined to express the MCA conspiracy to hide the galling fact of falling education standards of Chinese primary schools from parents and public.

The 21st MCA General Assembly held in Kuala Lumpur is a good proof of the attitude of MCA towards the grave problem of falling education standards in Chinese primary Schools.</u>

In the last two months, the DAP had exposed the well-kept secret of the MCA and the Alliance government about the shocking rate of mass failure in Chinese primary schools for the Standard V Assessment Examination every year.

Although the Government and the MCA were in possession of the fact that every year, 40 to 50 per cent of the students failed in their examinations, the MCA has hidden those brutal fact from the public knowledge.

It was the DAP which had to do the public the service of revealing the actual state of the shocking standard of education in the Chinese primary schools.

Although the parents and the public throughout the country had been gravely concerned by this issue of the shocking rate of mass failures in Chinese primary schools, in none of the 49 resolutions passed by the MCA 21st General Assembly did the MCA express any concern about this subject.

There was one resolution, which has some connection, which reads:” The 21st General Assembly urges the government to review the problems of automatic promotion in schools in order to ensure that education standards in the country were not only maintained but also improved.”

This is indeed shocking, for it means that the MCA is very happy and contented about the present standard of education in the Chinese primary schools, where about 40 to 50 per cent of the students failed in all subjects of the Standard V Assessment Examination.

This betrays the utter irresponsibility of the MCA about the present standard of educational welfare and future of our children.

There was one branch which did propose a resolution by the MCA General Assembly urging on the Assembly to give serious attention to the mass failures in Standard V Assessment Examination.

This question I want to ask the MCA leaders is as follows:

1.	Why did the MCA leaders, like Tun Tan Siew Sin, hide the fact about the shocking rate of mass failures among Chinese primary schools for the last four years from the knowledge of the parents and the public?

2.	Why did the MCA leaders, like Tun Tan Siew Sin, kill discussion of a resolution expression concern about the low quality and standard of education in Chinese primary schools?

3.	Why is the MCA leaders satisfied that there should continue to be a high rate of mass failure in Chinese primary schools, without any remedy or public concern, as expressed in the MCA resolution asking for the “maintenance” of the present standards?

The MCA is part of a larger conspiracy to ensure that the Chinese primary schools continue to fall in educational standards - so that parents would steadily lose confidence in Chinese primary Schools. This is why the MCA does not want the public to be concerned about this problem, which would mean the application of remedied to uplift the quality and standard of education in Chinese primary schools.

The DAP will not allow these MCA schemes against the interest of the people and country to succeed. We will continue to expose every MCA deceit, and stand bravely for the interests of the next generation of young Malaysians.
 
