+++ 
title: "Lim Kit Siang submits five adjournment motions for Parliament meeting"
date: "1972-08-05"
tags:
+++

# Lim Kit Siang submits five adjournment motions for Parliament meeting

DAP Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr.Lim Kit Siang, has given notice that he would make five adjournment speeches during the Parliament meeting beginning on Tuesday.

His adjournment speeches concern the 1971 Standard V Assessment Test results, complaint against rudeness by a specialist doctor in Malacca General Hospital, the lowering of examination in M.C.E, the application for the permission to take part in politics by a teacher, Mr. Patto.

The main points which Mr.Lim would touch on in each of his adjournment motions are as follows:</u>

1.	Results of the 1971 Standard V Assessment Test

(i)	1971 Standard V Assessment Test results for all language stream primary schools very poor;
(ii)	Basic need to carry out evaluation of the standard and quality of education that is being meted out in primary schools, which form the base of the national educational pyramid;
(iii)	Ministry of Education should not adopt a care-free and indifferent attitude to the shocking results of the Std.V Assessment Test.
(iv)	Proposal for a full-scale comprehensive study into the standard and quality of education in primary schools which is clearly demanded by the shocking poor Std.V Assessment Test 1971 results.

2.	Lowering of M.C.E. examination fees

(i)	Examination fees for M.C.E. too burdensome on the poor and should be reduced;
(ii)	In view of the local processing of M.C.E. papers beginning this year, there is an even stronger case for the reduction of examination fees;
(iii)	Urges government to halve examination fees for the sake of the poor.

3.	Deferment of Oral Bahasa Malaysia examination for M.C.E

(i)	The imposition of the oral Bahasa Malaysia as compulsory for M.C.E. examination should be deferred until there are enough teachers for the Bahasa Malaysia examination;
(ii)	The past M.C.E. examination results where thousands of students failed merely because of failure of Bahasa Malaysia shows the inadequacy of  the present system of teaching Bahasa Malaysia; and
(iii)	The compulsory oral Bahasa Malaysia examination should be deferred until teaching of Bahasa Malaysia in schools have marked improvement, while remaining as an optional subject.
  
4.	Applicant by teacher, P.Patto of Kuala Kangsar Clifford Primary School to take part in politics

(i)	P.Patto has applied for permission by the Ministry of Education to take part in politics five times, vizs. On Jan.19, 1971; Feb. 23, 1971; March 18, 1971; March 24,1972 and July 17, 1972.
(ii)	Ask for reasons for the delay, when there are thousands of teachers who have been given permission to take part in politics in the Alliance.
(iii)	The Ministry of Education should not adopt double standards to facilitate teachers who wish to take part in Alliance politics, while obstructing and even victimizing teachers who wish to take part in Opposition politics.
 
5.	Complaint against Dr. Mohan, eye specialist in Malacca General Hospital by Malacca Statement Assemblyman for Kota Timor, Bernard Sta Maria, for rudeness and discourtesy 

(i)	In a letter to the Ministry of Health dated 19th May 1972, Malacca State Assemblyman for Kota Timor, Bernard Sta Maria, complained against the rudeness of Dr. L. Mohan, eye specialist in Malacca General Hospital, against patients and members of the public.
(ii)	To date, no reply has been received.
(iii)	Want to know what action has been taken by the Minister concerning the complaint.
 
