+++ 
title: "Second letter to the Minister of Health on the Malacca General Hospital Deaths"
date: "1973-08-26"
tags:
+++

_On 26th August, 1973 the Opposition Leader and DAP Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr.Lim Kit Siang, send the following second letter to the Minister of Health on the Malacca Hospital deaths. He made five proposals for an investigation into the deaths to satisfy public opinion and social conscience_

_26.8.1973_

# “Tan Sri Lee Siok Yew,
Minister of Health,
Ministry of Health,
Kuala Lumpur.

Dear Tan Sri,

# Investigation Committee into Malacca Hospital deaths: Five proposals

The appointment of investigation committee members from outside the Ministry of Health into the Malacca Hospital deaths is a right decision.

However, as the Malacca Hospital deaths have greatly shaken public confidence in the hospital service, it is important that the people be convinced that there will be a full and free inquiry, and that there is no cause for anyone to feel that there had been any attempt to hush up the affair.

It is with this objective in mind, i.e. to fully restore public confidence in the hospital service that I wish to make five proposals concerning the investigation committee into the Malacca Hospital deaths:
</u>


<blockquote>1.	The investigation committee should have, as its terms of reference, the power to inquire into all aspects of negligence to ascertain whether the breakdown of the autoclave in the Malacca General Hospital had caused or contributed to death or serious harm to health, not only for the month of August but also for previous months.

2.	The investigation committee should include a representative from the Opposition, who enjoys the undoubted confidence of the people of Malacca.

3.	The investigation committee should hold its entire proceedings in public so that there will be no cause for any one to later harbour ay feeling that there was a hush up exercise.

4.	The investigation committee should have powers to subpoena witnesses and documents relevant to the inquiry.

5.	The investigation committee should invite and receive representations and testimony relevant to the inquiry from members of the public.

</blockquote>

I commend these five proposals concerning the investigation committee into the Malacca hospital deaths for your consideration and I am in no doubt that if these five proposals are accepted, the findings of the investigation committee will be the last word on the matter.”

Yours sincerely,
(Lim Kit Siang)
Opposition Leader and
M.P.for Bandar Melaka
 
