+++ 
title: "A new era in Malaysia’s foreign relations when diplomatic relationship is established with the People’s Republic of China"
date: "1974-05-18"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, at a DAP Public Rally at Kanthan Baru New Village in Perak on Saturday, 18th May 1974 at 8 p.m._

1. # A new era in Malaysia’s foreign relations when diplomatic relationship is established with the People’s Republic of China

A new era in Malaysia’s foreign relations will begin when in the next few days, Malaysia and China establishes diplomatic relationship ending the close to two decades of enmity and hostility between Malaysia and the super power in Asia.A new era in Malaysia’s foreign relations when diplomatic relationship is established with the People’s Republic of China</u>

When Malaysia and China announces diplomatic ties in a few days time, and when the Prime Minister Tun Razak, visits China in about ten days time, we hope that Malaysia-China relations will be put on a proper and correct footing which will be mutually beneficial for both countries.

For us in the DAP, who have as far back as 1966, called for the establishment of diplomatic relations with China, this will be proof of our correct political stand and analysis – even though we were subject to abuses and accusations for making the proposal at that time.

It is my hope and the people’s wish that there should be the fullest normalization of relations between Malaysia and China, permitting unrestricted exchange of visitors, trade, films, cultural delegations, economic missions, sports tours between the two countries.

2. Call on the Ministry of Education to give Form Six places to all students who have Grade One MCE certificates

This year, several hundreds of students who have Grade One MCE certificates have been denied places in Form six classes, although they have the aptitude and capability to proceed to Form six classes and from there to university education.

Now, these several hundreds of Malaysian students are condemned to join the ranks of the educated unemployed, and be content with lowly jobs with unsatisfactory salaries although they are capable of greater things.

This is indeed a gross injustice. I call on the Minister of Education to order the additional expansion of Form Six places in the country, so that every First Grader in MCE will get a place in Form Six.

Otherwise, apart from being a gross injustice, it is also a waste of the country’s resources to train more skilled manpower to get Malaysia onto economic progress and development.

It is indeed highly regrettable that up till now, the Ministry of Education has refused to disclose how many school and private candidates who failed the MCE last year merely because of failure in Bahasa Malaysia.

This matter deserves the attention of teachers, parents, political parties and the government, and should not be swept under the carpet. I would like to know why National Front parties, like the MCA, Gerakan, PPP and MIC, have nothing to say on this annual mass failure of 10,000 to 20,000 intelligent and hardworking students, through no fault of their own?
 
