+++ 
title: "DAP calls for the establishment of a permanent Commission"
date: "1974-08-21"
tags:
+++

Speech by DAP Secretary-General and Parliamentary Candidate for Kato Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, at a DAP Public Rally at Gajah on Wednesday, 21st August 1974 at 7.30 p.m.

1. DAP calls for the establishment of a permanent Commission entrusted with the twin tasks of ensuring that the Malay poor and the non-Malay National Front’s economic development plans.

In my public rally speech in Tanjong Malim on Sunday, 18th August, I challenged the National Front to set up a Commission of Inquiry to find cut whether the New Economic Policy and the Second Malaysia Plan have benefitted the rich Malays or the poor Malays in the last five years’ of operation.</u>

It is evident to all Malaysians that the New Economic Policy and the Second Malaysia Plan are only aimed building a small Malay capitalist class from the UMNO and now PAS leaders, while the mass of Malays poor, whether fisherman, farmer or worker, are left to struggle from hand to mouth.

I want here to propose the establishment of a permanent Commission entrusted with the twin tasks of ensuring that the Malay poor and the non-Malay poor are not discriminated against and ignored under the National Front’s economic development.

I have spoken in Tanjong Malim public rally how the Malay poor are left by the wayside under the Second Malaysia Plan, while the Malay rich make a pile of fortune.

Similarly, the non-Malay poor are neglected under the government’s economic programmes. In the last five years, there has been mounting frustration among the non-Malay poor – I am not interested in the non-Malay rich as they have money to look after themselves – because of the growing diminutions of educational opportunities, right up to the university level, although they possess the talents and the interest.

More and more Form V student are denied pre-university classes, or places in local universities, or technical colleges. They cannot find jobs to become useful members of society.

In the past, Malaysians who fail MCE because of failure in Bahasa Malaysia, but have a string of distinctions in other subjects like mathematics, science and English, could still proceed overseas for higher studies, as in Australia and New Zealand. These outlets abroad have now been choked off, for these countries have now announced that they will also stop accepting Malaysian students for pre-university courses unless they obtain a MCE certificate, i.e. with pass in Bahasa Malaysia.

The people have often been told that the New Economic Policy would be implemented in a way so as to ensure that “no particular group experiences any loss or feels any sense of deprivation.”

Loss or sense of deprivation is created not only from losing what you have or deprived of what you possess, but also from losing what you rightfully expected to have or deprived of what you had expected to enjoy. In this case, therefore, a student who, from his scholastic records and academic performance, had earned the right to believe that he would be able to proceed upwards through the educational ladder; and is subsequently denied this opportunity not for academic or scholastic reasons, is a person who has suffered a loss or felt a sense of deprivation.

A permanent Commission should therefore be established to ensure that the non Malay poor are not penalised, whether in economic, education or other fields of national life. Special agencies, like counterparts to the MARA, PERNAS, Bank Bumiputra, and others should be formed to help the non-Malay poor stand up on their own feet.

2. Dr.Lim Keng Taik has followed the footsteps of Dr. Lim Chong Eu and Goh Hock Guan and betrayed the people’s trust and confidence

In a public rally in Ipoh a few days ago, Dr. Lim Keng Yaik described the DAP as “Public Enemy No.1”. It will not be long before he would describe all the voters and people who support the DAP as ‘anti-national and disloyal’ elements.

Dr. Lim Keng Yaik is now a completely changed man. In the old days, he would show contempt for Goh Hock Guan as a quitter and political opportunist. Now, Dr. Lim Keng Yaik idolises Goh Hock Guan and is now taking political lessons from Goh Hoch Guan, faithfully following his footsteps to defy the wishes and hopes of the people in the towns, new villages, estates and the kampongs.

Dr. Lim Keng Yak in calling the DAP Public Enemy No.1’ has made very clear that he stands against everything that the DAP is fighting for, and opposes all Malaysians who think and feel alike as DAP. 

No wonder Dr. Lim Keng Yaik dare not resign his seat as a Senator to contest the 1974 general elections. At least he knew that he would be decisively rejected by the people should he come out to stand on his new platform, as formulated by Goh Hock Guan, and end his political life.

I know that Dr. Lim Keng Yaik does not like the DAP, for the existence of the DAP is a daily reminder to him and his kind that there are two types of politicians in Malaysia: one, like those in the DAP, who are prepared to stand up for their principles and give up comfort, office, position and self-gain; and the other group, like Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, Goh Hock Guan, who have mortgaged their principles for a place in the National Front.

3. Sdr. Chian Heng Kai will be appointed DAP Parliamentary Spokesman on his election as Member of Parliament

Our Parliamentary Candidate for Batu Gajah, Sdr. Chian Heng Kai, for instance, outshines Dr. Lim Keng Yaik in the steadfastness of his political principles.

Sdr. Chian Heng Kai, whom we would appoint as DAP Parliamentary Spokesman on Chinese Education on his election as M.P., has more stamina, political conviction and courage than Dr. Lim Keng Yaik.

Sdr. Chian Heng Kai, who is a formulator of DAP policy and programmes on Chinese education, is a graduate from Taiwan university, and I have no doubt that he would be a worthy Parliamentarian, not only for Batu Gajah, but for Malaysia. He has proved as Editor of Chinese Rocket that he fearless champion of the oppressed.

I strongly recommend Sdr. Chain Heng Kai to the voters of Batu Gajah, so that they can elect a Member of Parliament, who not only will be the first Member of Parliament with his Chinese Education background, but who will dare to speak up for the rightful place of Chinese education in Malaysia during Parliamentary proceedings.
 
