+++ 
title: "DAP branches must be prepared for general elections to be held within the next six months"
date: "1974-03-02"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliament for Bandar Melaka, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, to a meeting of DAP Branches in the Ipoh/ Menglembu area, comprising Buntong Branch, Kampong Simee Branch, Pasir Pinji Branch, Gunong Rapat Branch, Menglembu Branch, and Kg. Tawas Branch at DAP Ipoh office o Saturday, 2nd March 1974 at 7 p.m._

# 1. DAP branches must be prepared for general elections to be held within the next six months

DAP branches and members must redouble their efforts and be prepared for general elections to be held within the next six months.

The publication by the Elections Commission of its recommendations for new Parliamentary and State constituencies is the latest indication of general elections around the corner, despite the statement by the Elections Commission Chairman that Parliament can continue till February 1976.</u>

I expect these new proposed Parliamentary and State constituencies to be rushed through in all stages, and that Parliament and State Assemblies would be called into session in April and May to formally adopt the new changed boundaries.

It is provided under the Constitution that the public can make representations with respect to the proposed recommendations about new constituencies within one month after the publication of the recommendations.

It is also provided that if the Elections Commission receive any representations objecting to the proposed recommendation from “a body of one hundred or more persons whose names are shown on the current electoral rolls of the constituencies in question”, the Elections Commission shall cause a local enquiry to be hold in respect of those constituencies.

Malaysians who are not happy with any respect of proposed changes about the parliamentary and state constituencies should therefore make full use of their constitutional rights and band themselves together to make representations and cause local inquiries to be held, as these constituencies once finalized is likely to last for over a decade. Thus, the present Parliamentary and State constituencies, where one rural vote is equal to seven urban votes, have lasted for some 20 years.

2. Selection of DAP Candidates

The process of considering and selecting candidates for the general elections has started. Branches have been invited to submit nominations for candidates for their areas.

The final decision, however, rest with the Central Executive Committee, which can accept or reject any or all the nominations put up by the branches. The Central Executive Committee will take into the fullest consideration the proposals of the branches.
 
