+++ 
title: "All DAP branches and members should immediately prepare for the next general elections"
date: "1974-08-26"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Secretary-General and Member of Parliamentary for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, to members, supporters and well-wishers at the DAP Headquarters at Petaling Jaya on Monday, 26th August 1974 at 8 p.m._

1. All DAP branches and members should immediately prepare for the next general elections

The impressive victory of the DAP in the August 24 general elections is not the end of our political struggle, but only the beginning and I call on all DAP leaders, officials, members, and supporters to immediately begin to prepare for the next general elections.</u>

The struggle of the DAP to bring about a democratic socialist, and genuinely multi-racial Malaysia will be a long one, and we must be prepared to continue on the long march until our goal is achieved.

There is no time to rest on our laurels, We must forge ahead immediately, consolidate ourselves in areas where we have established ourselves and expand in areas where or which are still new to us.

In the coming five years, we will make a serious hid to win over the support of Malays in the rural areas, and we will also consider the possibility of establishing branches in the East Coast, like Kelantan, Trengganu and expanding in Pahang.

I am very impressed by the groundswell of support for the DAP as manifested in the general elections, and the active help and sacrifice of young Malaysians of all races and sex who came forward to help us, without thought for themselves.

These are the young men and women who will decide the destiny of Malaysia, and I welcome them to formally join the DAP so that we can all continue with work which we did in the 1974 General Elections.

2. DAP won 20% of the votes cast 

The DAP secured over 20% of the total votes cast in the 1974 General Elections. This is a marked progress as compared to 1969 general elections when we secured 11.9% of the total votes cast.

If we had a democratic electoral system where one-man one–vote system is faithfully implemented, then we should be entitled to 20% of the Parliamentary seats in West Malaysia. This would mean that on our present showing, we should have 23 Members of Parliament and not the present 9.

3. Central Executive Committee on Saturday to make several policy decisions

Having emerged as the sole Opposition in six states, namely Kedah, Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan, Malacca and Johore and virtually the sole Opposition in Penang State Assembly and in parliament for West Malaysia, the DAP is conscious of our heavy responsibility in the next five years.

The meeting of the Central Executive Committee in Petaling Jaya on Saturday will be one of the most crucial in the history of the DAP, for several important decisions will be taken charting the future plans of the Party.

To those DAP candidates who have been defeated, they should take encouragement from the great support the people have given us, and immediately plan and work for the next five years to regain all our lost ground.
 
