+++ 
title: "DAP urges a full scale review of Government policies as a consequent of post Indo China development."
date: "1975-07-06"
tags:
+++

# DAP urges a full scale review of Government policies as a consequent of post Indo China development.

With the Communist vioteries in IndoChina the rest of the South Fast Asian countries are still readjusting to the historic change and calculatirif the impact these developments have on their internal and external policies.

It would be a grave error for the policy-makers of South East Asia to react to the IndoChinese development militarily.

There is a danger that one consequence of post Vietnam development in the rest of SEA is a greater diversion of Government funds for defense and military purposes. This will not only hold back development effertsand allow the wide gap between the haves and the haves-not to grow, but will be a shortsighted and self-defeating reaction.</u>

If there is one lesson that we must all learn from the downfall of the previous South Vietnamese and Cambodians regime it is that their Governments have failed to oreate a sense of purpose among its people because of the corrupted, inefficient and decadent ways of the leaders. These Governments have become divorce from the aspirations of the common man and were indifferent to the basic problem of nation building.

In Malaysia, The Government must resist the temptation to spend more and more on defense but instead should concentrate more and more of its energy in combating and defeating poverty, ignorance and backwardness whether in the urban or rural areas.

All Malaysians regardless of race must benefit from Governmental activities and no one group should feel neglected or discriminated against for this will be the best source for unrest and disunity.
 
