+++ 
title: "Who is telling the truth – Tan Sri Alar or Dato Senu"
date: "1976-11-08"
tags:
+++

_FURTHER STATEMENT by Ketua Pembangkang and DAP Secretary-General, Lim Kit Siang, at the Press Conference in Parliament, Committee Room One, on Monday, 8th Nov. 1976 at 2 p.m._

# Who is telling the truth – Tan Sri Alar or Dato Senu

I now wish to make a further statement on the matter. I have with me the Directors’ Report for the year ended 30th Sept. 1974 signed by the Chairman of the Great Malaysia Line Sdn. Brd, Dato Senu bin Abdul Rahman.</u>

Dato Senu gave the following particulars of directors shareholdings during the year ended 30th Sept. 1974:

No. of Shares

Balance					  Balance  
1.10.1973	Acquired  Sold  30.9.1974

Datuk Senu bin Abdul Rahman				   250,000	  550,000    -    800,000
Khoo chuan Bok                            350,000      -		 -    350,001
Yap Kon Choon                            150,001       -       -    150,001
Michael Wong Wing Tai                     150,001       -       -    150,000
Engku Muhsein bin Engku Abdul Kadir         150,000    225,000    -    375,000
Tan Sri Syed Jaafar Albar(retired 24.9.1974)     150,000    650,000    -    800,000
Lee Boon Chim                             22,000      -        -     22,000
Datuk Haji Ali Rouse                          -       475,000    -    475,000

This is clear proof that between Oct. 1 1973 to Sept. 30 1974, Tan Sri Syed Jaffar Albar acquired a further 650,000 shares, making up a total of 800,000 shares. Although it is shown that he retired as a director on 24.9.1974 (and not three years ago as he claimed in the Dewan Rakyat) there is no indication that he had given up the shares.

The Directors’ Report for the year ended 30 Sept. 1975 are not available with the Registry of Companies.

Now, who is speaking the truth, Dato Senu, the chairman of the Great Malaysia Line Sdn. Bhd, or Tan Sri Syed Jaffar Albar, about Tan Syed Jaffar Albar’s ceasing to be a member three years ago and having given up the 800,000 shares.

This must be sorted out by both Dato Senu and Tan Sri Syed Jaffar Albar immediately. Either Tan Sri Syed Jaffar Albar is telling a lie, or Dato Senu has made a false report.

In the latter case, I would wish to draw the attention of the authorities to Clause 364(2) of the Companies Act, 1965, which states:

“Every person who in any return, report, certificate, balance sheet or other document  required by or for the purposes of this Act wilfully makes a statement false in any material particular knowing it to be false shall be guilty of an offence against this Act.
Penalty: Imprisonment for two years or five thousand dollars or both.” 

I ask that the relevant authorities should investigate immediately as to whether the Chairman of the Great Malaysia Line Sdn. Bhd., Dato Senu bin Abdul Rahman, and the ??? who submitted the annual returns, have infringed Clause 364(2) of the Companies Act,1965.
 
