+++ 
title: "DAP CEC dicides to send a delegation to meet Prime Minister, Dato Hussein Onn"
date: "1976-11-10"
tags:
+++

# DAP CEC dicides to send a delegation to meet Prime Minister, Dato Hussein Onn, to seek the release of DAP MP for Batu Gajah, Sdr Chain Heng Kai and DAP Assistant NAtional Treasurer, Sdr Chan Kok Kit                                                     

The DAP Central Executive Committee, at an emergency meeting in Kuala Lumpur on Monday, 8th Nov. 1976 called to discuss the detention of DAP MP for Batu Gajah, Sdr. Chian Heng Kai and DAP Assistant National Treasurer, Sdr. Chan Kok Kit, decided to send a delegation to meet the Minister, Dato Hussein Onn, to seek for their immediate release.</u>

On behalf of the Central Executive Committee, I have also sent a letter of protest to the Prime Minister on the arbitary and unjustified detention of Sdr. Chian Heng Kai and Sdr. Chan Kok Kit.

My letter to the Prime Minister reads:

“The Central Executive Committee of the DAP protests in the strongest possible manner the arbitary and unjustified detention of DAP Member of Parliament for Batu Gajah, Sdr. Chian Heng Kai, and DAP Assistant National Treasurer, Sdr Chan Kok Kit.

“Sdr. Chian Heng Kai and Sdr. Chan Kok Kit are the last persons to have anything to do with a communist united front or some communist conspiracy.

“In fact, Sdr. Chian Heng Kai was the only Member of Parliament who on 26th Nov. 1975 asked in the Dewan Rakyat whether the National Bureau of Investigations had received a letter dated 2nd Sept. 1975 from a Seremban group calling itself “The National Anti-Corruption Group” alleging that the then Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister, Datuk Abdullad Ahmad, had been involved in corruption and what the NBI had done about it.

“All these are in the Hansard.

“Sdr. Chian Heng Kai could have no links or connections whatsoever with Samad Ismail or Datuk Abdullah Ahmad. The same applies to Sdr. Chan Kok Kit. Both of them are worlds apart, with either Samad Ismail and Datuk Abdullah Ahmad in their political stands and approaches.

“For the government to arrest DAP leaders in the purge to clean up the UMNO and the government in the wake of Samad Ismail’s television confessions is to misuse the Internal Security Act, and another attempt to cripple a democratic Opposition party which is not in anyway involved in the UMNO internal power struggle.

“This is most unfair and undemocratic. Both Sdr. Chian Heng Kai and Sdr. Chan Kok Kit should be immediately released or charged in an open court.”

The DAP Central Executive Committee has also taken several decisions in connection with the detention of Sdr. Choan Heng Kai and Sdr. Chan Kok Kit.

One of these decisions is the formation of a Central Co-ordinating Committee in the Campaign to Secure the Immediate Release of Sdr. Chian Heng Kai and Sdr. Chan Kok Kit.

The task of this Central Co-ordinating Committee is to highlight the injustices of the detention of Sdr. Chian Henh Kai and Sdr. Chan Kok Kit, both inside and outside the party, within the country and overseas.

This Central Co-ordinating Committee is headed by Sdr. P. Patto, National Publicity Secretary, and comprise Sdr. Abu Samah, Assistant National Publicity Secretary, and Sd. Chan Teck Chan, Assistant National Organising Secretary.
 
