+++ 
title: "DAP to expand throughout the country to give people of Malaysia an opportunity to build a new Malaysia where there is no racial, economic and political injustices"
date: "1977-10-08"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition London and DAP Secretary-General, Lim Kit Siang, to members of the Kaki Bukit DAP Protem Committee held at Kaki Bukit, Perlis, on Saturday, 8th Oct. 1977 at 3.30 p.m._

# DAP to expand throughout the country to give people of Malaysia an opportunity to build a new Malaysia where there is no racial, economic and political injustices

The DAP will open its first branch in Perlis when the application for registration of the Kaki Bukit DAP Branch is registered, and I look forward to more branches in Perlis being set up. </u>

The DAP is a national political movement, and will expand throughout Malaysia to give the people of Malaysia an opportunity to build a new Malaysia where there is no racial, economic and political injustices, where corruption is seriously fought against, and where every Malaysian citizen regardless of race enjoys the full rights and responsibilities of citizenship.

The DAP is a party of the people, and will fearlessly identify with the people in their aspiration for a good, and peaceful life.

The next general elections is very close, and it will be an opportunity for the people of Malaysia to express their views a as to what type of a Malaysian society they went themselves and their children to grow up in.

For the last 21 years since Merdeka, the ordinary people have seen with their own eyes the failures in nation-building, in elimination of poverty and corruption, or in protection of human rights of the people.

In any government which is concerned about the people, its first priority is to show its concern for the economic, cultural, educational, social and political rights of individual human beings.

The Barisan Nasional government has failed in this, for its concern is to enable a small group of political leaders and their relatives and connections to continue to enjoy vast wealth and political power regardless of the welfare of the workers, farmers, fisherman and wage-earners.

The DAP represents political, economic and national change for the better for the masses - and this is why we are gathering increasing support in more and more parts of the country.

In fact, in the next general elections, it is now left to the DAP to take on the Barisan Nasional, to give the people an alternative to the Barisan Nasional.
 
