+++ 
title: "Cable of Congratulations to Amnesty International for being awarded Nobel Peace Prize"
date: "1977-10-11"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader and DAP Secretary-General, Mr. Lim Kit Siang:_
 
Cable of Congratulations to Amnesty International for being awarded Nobel Peace Prize

I have sent a cable of congratulations to the Amnesty International for being awarded the NobelPeace Price for this Year.</u>

The cable reads:

“Martin Ennals,
Amnesty International
LONDON

CONGRATULATION TO AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL FOR WELL-DESERVED NOBEL PRIZE AWARD 1977 RECOGNITION FOR HUMAN RIGHTS WORK TO FREE HUMANITY FROM MAN-MADE CHAINS THROUGHOUT WORLD

Lim Kit Siang
Parliamentary Opposition Leader
Secretary-General, Democratic
Action Party Malaysia”

The conferment of the Nobel Peace Prize Award of Amnesty International will give an added boost t human-right fighters in Malaysia and outside to establish national concern about basic rights of individuals. Those who do not support human rights have ceased to be concerned about human beings, and their policies must be strenuously opposed by all peace-loving peoples.

I call on the Acting Prime Minister, Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, to officially send a cable of congratulations to Amnesty International for the Nobel Peace Award, and declare Malaysia’s respect for human rights, and the review of all laws and measures which suppress human and civil rights in the country.

On this occasion, I call on Dato Hussein Onn and Dr. Mahathir Mohamed to release Sdr. Chian Heng Kai, Member of Parliament for Batu Gajah, and Sdr. Chan Kok Kit, DAP National Asst. treasurer, immediately and unconditionally, as they have committed no offence against the laws or the constitution of the country. If they have, they should be brought to court for an open trial, and both Sdr. Chian Heng Kai and Sdr. Chan Kok Kit would welcome a public trial.
 
