+++ 
title: "Call to Malaysians with idealism and conscience to immediately contribute funds for the ‘Campaign to Save to 14-yearold condemned boy’ to enable the immediate mounting of an international campaign to complement the national campaign"
date: "1977-09-13"
tags:
+++

# Call to Malaysians with idealism and conscience to immediately contribute funds for the ‘Campaign to Save to 14-yearold condemned boy’ to enable the immediate mounting of an international campaign to complement the national campaign

Immediate substantial funds is needed to instantly launch an international campaign to save the 14-year-old condemned boy from the death cell, and I call on Malaysians of idealism and conscience, who would like to see Malaysian society infused with civilized and moral values, to contribute to this Campaign with substantial donations and immediately.</u>

For immediate purposes, Malaysians can make their contributions by crossed cheques or crossed money orders made out to ‘CAMPAIGN TO SAVE 14-YEAR-OLD CONDEMNED BOY”,
c/c  	LIM KIT SIANG
Jalan 20/9
Paramount Garden,
PETALING JAYA.

Every day the 14-year-old condemned boy is allowed to remain in the death cell, it is another day of shame for Malaysian values.

Malaysians want our children to grow up in a Malaysian nation which respects human life and human decency. This is why this campaign to get the 14-year-old condemned boy removed from the death cell in Penang Prisons to a suitable juvenile centre is a campaign, not only to save he soul of the boy, but a campaign to save Malaysia’s soul.

This is a moral issue, an issue of humanity, which should transcend political or party considerations.

The national mass signature campaign will be officially launched tomorrow, and by the end of the week, it will be carried out simultaneously throughout the various parts of the country.

I call on Malaysians who feel strongly about this issue to come forward and join and help in this campaign.
 
