+++ 
title: "DAP welcomes Malaysians who believe in a  genuine multi-racial, democratic socialist Malaysia to join the DAP it even more broadly-based political movement"
date: "1977-09-14"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Ketua Pembangkang and DAP Secretary-General, Lim Kit Siang, at a thanksgiving party for Party Congress workers and to celebrate Hari Raya Puasa held at 205, Jalan Bukit Bintang, Kuala Lumpur on Wednesday, 14.9.1977 at 8 pm._

# DAP welcomes Malaysians who believe in a  genuine multi-racial, democratic socialist Malaysia to join the DAP it even more broadly-based political movement

In its 11 years of political struggle, the DAP has proved itself as a serious political movement dedicated to the realisation of its political objective of creating a genuinely multi-racial, democratic socialist Malaysia.</u>

There is no doubt, that over the years, there has been an increasing atmosphere of repression and intolerance of dissent. If Malaysians want democracy and rule of law in substance, and not just in form, then Malaysians must be prepared to stand up and fight for these principles. Some may have to pay a personal price, as going to detention as two of our leaders, Sdr. Chian Heng Kai and Sdr. Chan Kok Kit, who are now currently held in detention in Kamunting. Some may be deprive of their civic rights, as Sdr. Fan Yew Teng, who faces deprivation of his Parliamentary and Selangor State Assembly membership- and the right of stand for elections or to vote for five years. Some may be brought to court on a variety of prosecutions and persecutions.

But these are the sacrifices and hardships leaders of the country who want to help guide Malaysia to a new tomorrow must be prepared to accept.

Leaders of DAP have proved their preparedness to pay the price of their convictions. We welcome more Malaysians who believe in a genuine multi-racial and democratic socialist Malaysia, where there is no class or race exploitation, where human rights and civil liberties are respected, and where corruption and abuse of power are regarded as cancers of society to be wiped out without mercy, to join forces with the DAP to fight all the social and national cancers afflicting our people and nation.

DAP leaders and members must never forget that we are in the DAP not for what politics can give us, but what can give to the nation through political involvement and sacrifice.

Our doors are open to Malaysians who are prepared to make similar commitments for these principles, and they are welcome to make the DAP a more broadly-based political movement.

Finally, I wish to re-affirm that the DAP will stand firm by its political principles, and that we will not compromise for self-gain and short-term political interest.
 
