+++ 
title: "From the SG's Desk"
date: "1977-10-19"
tags:
+++

# Selangor/Federal Territory Elections Preparatory Committee given one month to show results

I had suggested the holding of a meeting of the Selangor/Federal Territory Elections Preparatory Committee tonight at 7.30 p.m. partly to express my dissatisfaction with the work this Committee had done since its formation in August.

Until 8 p.m., only five out of 11 members had turned up. The Chairman had also not yet turned up. I left because I had no time to waste waiting for the meeting to begin.</u>

I had said many times in my tour of the various states that the DAP organisation must be put on the war-footing. By this, I meant genuine war-footing, and not a phoney war.

If a State Elections Preparatory Committee could not even hold a proper meeting, then it is clearly incapable of masterminding the Party’s electoral victories in the State in the coming general elections.

I am giving the Selangor/Federal Territory Elections Preparatory Committee one month to prove that it can measure up to the heavy responsibility placed on it, and to produce results. If it does not, then it will be dissolved and a new Committee will be formed in it s place.

The time for name-sake Committee and Committee officials in the DAP is now past. We want mobilization and action in the true sense of the word.

It is unfortunate that after my two months’ of exhortation, there are still many in the Party who have not woken up from the slumbering habits of the past.

Punctuality

I have had occasion to reprimand several national and state leaders openly for their complete lack of a sense of time, and turning up for meetings late. I want to make it clear that I will not tolerate lack of punctuality among Party leaders and officials. There is no reason for unpunctuality, unless there is very good reason.

If I can turn up for meetings on time, I do not see why Committee members anywhere cannot be on time.
 
