+++ 
title: "The Kelantan political crisis has been allowed to deteriorate for far too long. The best solution is the dissolution of the Kelantan State Assembly to give the people – the final judges in a democratic system – to decide who is to form the new government."
date: "1977-10-29"
tags:
+++

_Statement by Lim Kit Siang, Parliamentary Opposition Leader DAP Secretary General issued on 29th October, 1977_

# The Kelantan political crisis has been allowed to deteriorate for far too long. The best solution is the dissolution of the Kelantan State Assembly to give the people – the final judges in a democratic system – to decide who is to form the new government.

I call on PAS and UMNO to agree to the dissolution of the Kelantan State Government to solve the political crisis in Kelantan.</u>

PAS and UMNO should have no fear to return to the people to renew their mandate if they are sure they have acted in full accordance with the interest of the people of Kelantan at heart.

The proposal by the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Mahathir Mohamad, that if PAS and UMNO in Kelantan cannot reach an understanding to solve their political crisis in Kelantan, an emergency kind of administration ala-mageran like the one previously headed by Allahyarham Tun Razak set-up in 1969 is most shocking.

This proposal to set-up a megaran kind of rule in Kelatan must be opposed as contrary not only to the democratic rights of the people of Kelantan to be government by the people of Kelantan but contrary to all accepted notions of Parliamentary democracy.

If PAS and UMNO refuse to dissolve the Kelantan State Assembly, wanting to put party interests before the interests of the people, then strict adherence of constitutional conventions and principles demands that PAS which holds an absolute majority in the Assembly should appoint its own Menteri Besar.

If PAS with its absolute majority in Kelantan is not allowed to do so, then PAS by entering Barisan Nasional has completely surrendered its freedom of action and political identity and is going the way of the other Barisan Nasional parties especially the PPP, being no more than a subordinate and subservient party to big-brother UMNO.

PAS has all along boasted that unlike other Barisan Nasional parties it is an equal partner in the Barisan Nasional. Events are proving otherwise.
 
