+++ 
title: "Call on Seberang Prai local councilors to resign and let better men take over if they could not provide basic services for ratepayers"
date: "1977-09-20"
tags:
+++

_by Ketua Pembangkang and DAP Secretary-General, Lim Kit Siang:_

# Call on Seberang Prai local councilors to resign and let better men take over if they could not provide basic services for ratepayers

I have yesterday, 19th Sept. 1977, sent a letter to the Chairman of the Seberang Prai Local Council in connection with the deplorable condition of Jalan Bunga Raya, a main road in Bukit Mertajam, and called on the local councilors to resign if they could not provide basic services for the ratepayers.</u>

My letter to the Council Chairman reads:

“Pengerusi, 
Seberang Prai Local Council,
Seberang Prai,

Sir,

Jalan Bunga Raya in Bukit Mertajam a standing shame for Seberang Prai Local Council

A week ago, on Sept. 11, I was in Bukit Mertajam, and I had occasion to drive through Jalan Bunga Raya.

In my eleven years of political activities, I have travelled the length and breadth of Malaysia. I have gone into towns, new villages, estates, kampongs, but I must say that Jalan Bunga Raya, a main road in Bukit Mertajam, beats them all in its terrible condition.

In fact, Jalan Bunga Raya is so bad that it can be used as the toughest stretch in a motor-racing obstacles course, designed to destroy any vehicle in the shortest possible time.

Jalan Bunga Raya is undescribable with its sharp ups and steeps down, and is something which cannot be visualizexd without being seen and experienced.

Jalan Bunga Raya is standing shame to Seberang Prai Local Council and to Penang State Government.

Where is the Member of Parliament and the State Assemblyman, and where are the local councillors – that Jalan Bunga Raya could be allowed to reach such a terrible state?

The rate-payers of Bukit Mertajam have been very ill-served, I hope Seberang Prai Local Council can wake up and perform its elementary responsibility of providing basic services for the ratepayers of Bukit Mertajam. If the local councillors cannot do so, then they should all resign and let better men take over.
 
