+++ 
title: "Call to retiring Chief of Armed Forces, Gen. Tan Sri Ibrahim Ismail, to look into complaints by soldiers that they are being asked to contribute between $20 - $30 compulsorily to buy farewell gifts for him"
date: "1977-09-03"
tags:
+++

_By Ketua Pembangkang and DAP Secretary-General, Lim Kit Siang (3.9.1977)_

# Call to retiring Chief of Armed Forces, Gen. Tan Sri Ibrahim Ismail, to look into complaints by soldiers that they are being asked to contribute between $20 - $30 compulsorily to buy farewell gifts for him

I have received complaints from members of the armed forces that they are being required compulsorily to contribute between $20 - $30 for farewell gifts and farewell occasions on the retirement of the Chief of Armed Forces Staff, Gen. Tan Sri Ibrahim Ismail, with effect from Dec. 1.</u>

I am sure that Gen. Tan Sri Ibrahim Ismail is not aware of this compulsory levy imposed on the entire armed forces numbering some 50,000 persons.

I ask him to intervene and instead of a compulsory levy, or virtually compulsory levy, it should be strictly a voluntary contribution without any person fearing for his advancement prospects for failure or the sum he contributes.

I am aware that this practice, which imposes a great burden on the staff, especially those on the lower divisions, is common occurrence with the constant movement and transfer of top-level officers. in the entire government service.

The Ministries concerned should all look into this matter as to ensure that the ordinary government or armed services or police staff are not often taxed in this manner.
 
