+++ 
title: "Call on NBI to investigate into corruption rackets in the house development industry"
date: "1977-09-27"
tags:
+++

# Call on NBI to investigate into corruption rackets in the house development industry

Corruption has become rifer with the passing years. The NBI has proved to be an ineffective instrument to fight corruption at all levels of government, and from all sectors of public life.

Corruption in fact is becoming accepted as a way of Malaysian public life. This is disgraceful, and must be stamped out if it is not to eat into the heart of the Malaysian nation like a cancer.</u>

Corruption is so prevalent in Malaysia that it is a matter of great surprise to ordinary Malaysians that the NBI does not seem to know what is happening around them. Malaysians can rightly ask the NBI officers to whether they are living in a completely different world from ordinary Malaysians.

I have seen records of a highly reputable housing developer company in Petaling Jaya, which had built several phases of housing, covering 1976 and 1977 of wide-scale payments of bribery and corruption involving numerous government departments and public servants, with sums ranging from a few dollars to a few hundred dollars. These pay-offs were almost a daily matter, and these records that I saw were duly and properly signed by the officers responsible of the company concerned.

I call on the NBI to launch an investigation into such wide-scale pay-offs in the housing building industry.
 
