+++ 
title: "Call on MCA to respect the views of the Malaysian Chinese as expressed in the recent elections and to come out openly in support of Merdeka University project"
date: "1978-08-20"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary – General and Member of Parliament for Petaling, at a 1,000 – people dinner organised by DAP Petaling Jaya Branches to commemorate his election as MP at Village Restaurant, Jayapuri, PJ on Sunday, 20th August 1978 at 9 p.m._

Call on MCA to respect the views of the Malaysian Chinese as expressed in the recent elections and to come out openly in support of Merdeka University project

The MCA claims to represent the 5 million Chinese in Malaysia. But it has been decisively rejected by the people in the recent general elections.</u>

The DAP, with 16 MPs, secured some 400,000 votes, while the MCA with 17 MPs secured a total of over 200,000 votes. And Tun Tan Siew Sin, former MCA President, said the MCA MPs won because of UMNO’s Malay votes.

The reason why Merdeka University project is facing so many problems and difficulties is solely because of the MCA. Right from the beginning in 1967 and 1968, when the Merdeka University proposal was mooted, the MCA was in the forefront of opposition to the proposal.

If a party, which proclaims itself as the champion of the five million Chinese, condemn Merdeka University proposal as chauvinistic and racialist, surely, UMNO, a party for the Malays, is bound to take a more extreme stand.

If today, the Merdeka University proposal has been misunderstood by the Malay community, then the MCA must bear full responsibility.

Now that the election results have been a clear – cut one, that the people want Merdeka University project to succeed, I call on MCA to demonstrate that it is prepared to abide by the wishes of the people.

Over 4,000 associations, societies and organisations have signed and put the official seal to the petition to the Yang di – Pertuan Agong seeking approval for the establishment of the Merdeka University, except the MCA, which claims to represent 5 million Chinese.

Dato Michael Chen, Acting MCA President, said a few days ago that the MCA would help to make Merdeka University project a success.

I will like to ask Dato Michael Chen whether he is a speaking on behalf of himself, or speaking on behalf of the Party.

To test whether Dato Michael Chen is speaking on behalf of MCA, I suggest that Dato Michael Chen should immediately represent the MCA and sign and put the MCA seal on the petition to the Yang di – Pertuan Agong on the Merdeka University. Secondly, I will be moving a motion in the coming meeting of Parliament calling on Parliament to approve Merdeka University. Let Datuk Michael Chen announce whether he could instruct the MCA Ministers and MPs to vote for the Merdeka university motion. If Datuk Michael Chen is speaking on behalf of himself, and not on behalf of the MCA, then let Michael Chen tell the people whether they can expect at least his personal vote in support of the Merdeka university motion.
 
