+++ 
title: "Lim Kit Siang calls on Elections Commission to give fullest publicity that the voting hours on Polling Day ends at 6.30 p.m. and not 8p.m. as previously"
date: "1978-06-26"
tags:
+++

# Lim Kit Siang calls on Elections Commission to give fullest publicity that the voting hours on Polling Day ends at 6.30 p.m. and not 8p.m. as previously

From my visits with the people, I find that the people still think that the voting hours on Polling Day on July 8 end at 8 p.m., when in fact, the polling hours end at 6.30 p.m. I do not know why the Information Department  did not make the fullest publicity of this shorter voting hours -  unless the purpose is to let the workers be caught by surprise and to lose their right to vote. This is because workers usually return fro work in the evening, and only go to work after their work. When voting hours ended at 8 p.m., the workers would go and vote after 7p.m. if the 6.30p.m. close to voting on Polling Day is not given the fullest publicity, many workers will find that the polling had closed after they had finished work. As the workers vote for the DAP, the Barisan Nasional would not mind the workers losing their right to vote.</u>

I want to know why the television and radio announcements about Polling Day did not mention that shorter voting hours ending at 6.30p.m.

Many people do not know whether their names are on the electoral register. They should come to the DAP Petaling Jaya office at 77, Road 20/9, Paramount Garden, to check their names. Telephone contact in 769554 or 761281.

As Malaysia claims to be a parliamentary democracy, power rests with the people, and the people must be given the opportunity to cast their vote. In this connection, I call on the Government to declare Polling Day a paid public holiday so that all working people can go and cast their votes without loss in wages.
 
