+++ 
title: "DAP cables Socialist International Party Leaders Conference in Stockholm today and tomorrow to help increase resettlement of refugees and put pressure on Vietnam to end policy of genocide"
date: "1979-07-20"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader and DAP Secretary-General, Lim Kit Siang:_

# DAP cables Socialist International Party Leaders Conference in Stockholm today and tomorrow to help increase resettlement of refugees and put pressure on Vietnam to end policy of genocide

On behalf of Democratic Action Party, I have yesterday sent an urgent cable to the Socialist International Party Leaders conference to be held in Stockholm, Sweden, today and tomorrow to urge Western countries to open wider their doors for Vietnamese refugees and to put pressure on Vietnam to halt its policy of racism and genocide.</u>

The Socialist International, of which the DAP is a member, has 42 affiliate member parties, several of which are ruling parties in their respective countries.

Socialist International Party Leaders’ Conference is a regular meeting of SI Party Leaders to discuss the latest regional and international political developments and trends.

Although the DAP will not be represented in the SI Party Leader Conference in Stockholm, the SI Party Leader’s Conference has been urged to give the Vietnamese refugee problem urgent attention.

The DAP to the SI Party Leaders’ Conference reads:

“Bernst Carlson
Socialist International Party Leaders’ Conference Stockholm, Sweden

Urge Conference deliberation of human holocaust in South East Asia stemming from cold-blooded Vietnam policy extorting blood-money and exporting refugees. Further request Socialist International parties urge respective countries to greatly expedite rate of settlement of Vietnamese refugees, increase aim for temporary relief of Vietnamese refugees in South East Asian Camps, and put pressure on Vietnam to halt policy of racism and genocide.

Secretary-General
Democratic Action Party Malaysia”.

The DAP will give full support to Malaysian Government efforts in the Geneva Conference on Indo-Chinese refugees to get United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and European countries to greatly multiply their intake of Vietnamese refugees.

However, the DAP believes that to let Vietnam continue with her policy of racism and genocide is to miss the crux of the problem, and to set a dangerous precedent in the international affairs where the barbarity and inhumanity of one nation can hold the rest of the international society to ransom.
 
