+++ 
title: "Australian Government assures Lim Kit Siang that there would be no decrease of student intake into Australia from Malaysia"
date: "1980-09-24"
tags:
+++

# Australian Government assures Lim Kit Siang that there would be no decrease of student intake into Australia from Malaysia

Australian Foreign Minister, Mr. Andrew Peacock, has assured Malaysia Parliamentary Opposition leaders, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, that Australia would not decrease intake of Malaysian student into Australia for higher studies.

Mr. Peacock assured Mr. Lim, that the Australia Government would continue the educational programme to provide higher educational opportunities for Malaysian students in Australia.</u>

Mr. Lim called on Mr. Peacock at the Australian Foreign Minister’s office at Melbourne during the first part of his visit to Australia to meet in particular Malaysian students to find out about their lives in Australia, their problems and needs and also to meet Australian officials and party leaders.

In the 50-minute meeting with Mr. Peacock, both leaders discussed the Kampuchean situation, North-South Relations and in particular educational opportunity for Malaysian students in Australia.

Mr. Lim expressed concern that the increase of university fees in Australia tertiary institutions would deprive student from poorer income group the opportunity of receiving higher education opportunities.

Mr. Peacock said that he was concerned by this question and had called for a report on the matter.

Mr. Lim also requested the Australian Government to give sympathetic consideration to Malaysian student who, although they had completed their academic examination, still needed practical experience to fully require professional recognition of their qualifications.

Mr. Lim conceded that while the Australian Government had the right to finally decide on its education policy and programme, the Australian Government should see the provision of higher education opportunity for Malaysian students from the North-South perspective, as this is an area where Australia could make a most meaningful contribution.

Mr. Peacock was sympathetic to Mr. Lim views, and informed Mr. Lim that the whole question of education opportunity for overseas students was under active review.

During his visit to Australia, Mr. Lim is scheduled to meet senior education, immigration and foreign office official where Mr. Lim would seek for a greater opening up of higher educational opportunity for Malaysian students in the Eighties.

Mr. Lim would be the official guest of the Australian Government during his visit to Canborra. He would also visit Sydney, Adelaide and Perth.

Mr. Lim would speak to Malaysian students in the various Australian cities to update them in the current developments back home.

Mr. Lim would also attend the Asian-Pacific Socialist Organisation Executive Conference in Wellington which would discuss among other subjects, the increasing tensions and conflicts in South East Asia.

 
