+++ 
title: "DAP calls on Datuk Hussein Onn to effect a greater multi-racial balance in the public service sector"
date: "1980-08-22"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Petaling, Lim Kit Siang, at the annual general meeting of the Klang Pasar DAP Branch in Klang, on Friday, 22nd August 1980 at 7pm_

# DAP calls on Datuk Hussein Onn to effect a greater multi-racial balance in the public service sector under the Fourth Malaysia Plan in keeping with the NEP objective to remove any identification of race with vocation

One of the two declared objectives of the New Economic Policy, under which the various Five-Year Plans were formulated, was the restructuring of society to eliminate the identification of race with vocation.</u>

While this is a laudable objective, its success and that of the overriding aim of NEP – to achieve national unity – could only be realised if this restructuring prong of the NEP is perceived and seen as a national and balanced process, and not a lop-sided, selective exercise affecting certain sectors but not others. This has given rise to considerable dissatisfaction and alienation leading to undermining of the process of nation building.

The public sector, as the largest employer in the country, has a special responsibility to set an example in this restructuring programme – to bring about a greater multi-racialisation in the country.

In the past, however, there had been many areas of government sectors where this balanced restructuring does not appear to have been given the necessary attention – leading to the neglect of the NEP objective to work towards elimination of race with vocation. 

As example is the government intake of trainees as nurses and hospital assistants.

From 1972-1979, the breakdown according to race of trainees as nurses and hospital assistants are as follows:

(1)	Breakdown by race of trainee nurses recruited  for the Ministry of Health 1972-1979

Year		Malays		Chinese		Indians		Others 		Total

1972		503		59		7		0		569
1973		766		103		19		1		889
1974		818		128		31		3		980
1975		722		112		20		3		857
1976		545		97		25		2		670
1977		524		138		31		3		696
1978		513		149		49		2		713
1979		470		120		60		4		654
		_____		____		___		___		_____
		5,093		914		244		18		6,269

For the eight years from 1972-1979, the total number of trainee nurses recruited by the Health Ministry comprises 81.2% Malays, 14.6% Chinese, 3.9% Indians, 0.3% Others.
(2)	Breakdown by race of trainee hospital assistants recruited by Ministry of Health 1971-1979

Year		Malays		Chinese		Indians		Others 		Total

1971		153		14		8		0		175
1972		185		9		3		3		200
1973		154		13		11		2		180
1974		168		15		16		1		200
1975		193		26		21		0		240
1976		196		30		9		5		240
1977		132		32		16		0		180
1978		131		29		15		5		180
1979		17		8		5		0		30
		_____		____		___		___		_____
		1329		176		104		16		1625

For the nine years from 1971-1979, the total number of trainee hospital assistants recruited by the Health Ministry comprises Malays 81.8%, Chinese 10.8%, Indians 6.4%, Others 1%.

Clearly, there is urgent need for greater commitment by the Ministry of Health and the Health Minister in particular, Tan Sri Chong Hong Nyan, to a more balanced restructuring process.

In this connection, I call on the Prime Minister, Dato Hussein Onn, to effect a greater multi-racial balance in the public service sector under the Fourth Malaysia. Plan in keeping with the NEP objective to remove any identification of race with vocation.

DAP to hold a One-Day Seminar on Fourth Malaysian Plan at end of October for DAP MPs and State Assemblymen

The Fourth Malaysia Plan will be presented to Parliament next year, and will be the basis of the government’s development plans and efforts for the next five years.

It is imperative that the Fourth Malaysia Plan should adhere strictly to the NEP objective national unity. The Sixties and Seventies, and the development plans during those decades, have led to an accumulation of antagonism, alienation and bitterness among the people, especially among the young generation of Malaysians.

These are danger signs which national leaders must heed and take stock before they deteriorate further.

The Fourth Malaysian Plan, therefore, must be a Plan of Unity and Reconciliation to break the vicious circle of racial suspicion, bitterness and distrust of the Sixties and Seventies.

The DAP will hold a one-day seminar on the Fourth Malaysian Plan for its MPs, State Assemblymen and leaders at the end of October to give our ideas and suggestions as to how the Fourth Malaysia Plan could become a Plan of Unity and Reconciliation for the diverse peoples, races, cultures and religions in Malaysia.
 
