+++ 
title: "THE ANNUAL BUDGET SHOULD BE AN INSTRUMENT OF UNITY TO UNITE MALAYSIANS"
date: "1980-10-22"
tags:
+++

# THE ANNUAL BUDGET SHOULD BE AN INSTRUMENT OF UNITY TO UNITE MALAYSIANS

“Without a land-to-the-tiller programme, the main beneficiaries of the public development expenditure and subsidies will be the ‘big man’ and not the ‘smallman’. The tragedy of Malaysian economic development is that many programme launched in the name of helping the ‘smallman’ had ended up in benefiting the ‘big man’.”</u>

“ The DAP calls on the Government to seriously consider introducing legislation to provide for Indexation of Wages to the Cost of Living, whereby every year, there is an automatic adjustment of worker salaries to keep in step with inflation.”

“The government cannot claim to understand or sympathise with the sufferings and hardships of the poor for a decent shelter when it could sit on the Ministerial Committee Report on the 1966 Rent Control Act for some five years doing nothing. Every day of inaction on this matter is a day of licence to unscrupulous and unconscionable landlords to throw poor tenants out onto the streets.”

“The entire housing industry must be shaken up, but to do that, the country needs a Housing Authority vested with all powers and authority to get housing, and in particular low-cost public housing, moving. All the Housing Ministers in the country have proven to be only good in making beautiful speeches and forecasts, but absymall in delivering goods.” 

“It is not that Malaysian have no confidence in the national language media of education. What they lack confidence is that their children would be given an equal opportunity to develop their capabilities and potential.”

“Ever since the Seventies, Malaysia appeared to have turned her face against the pursuit of excellence in any field. While Malaysia must redress excellence must not only be sacrificed, for we are then sacrificing national excellence and greatness.”

Speech on the 1981 Budget on October 22, 1980.
	
The annual budget should be on instrument of unity to unite Malaysian

The finance Minister, Tengku Razaleigh, in his 1981 Budget, prides himself for presenting a ‘smallman’s budget’

Compared to previous budget, the 1981 Budget has given more thought to the plight of the smallman, for which I commend the Finance Minister. However, the 1981 Budget has not gone far enough to give the smallman his rightful place under the Malaysian sun.
Land Reform in padi sector will confer greater and more lasting benefits then mere increase in subsidy

The Finance Minister, for instance, announced increase of the subsidy to padi farmers on the purchase of padi by the way of coupons by raising the coupon value from $2 per picul to $10 per picul. The Finance Minister said this increase, which is equivalent to an increase in the price of medium length padi grains from $28 to $38 per picul and for long grains from $30 to $40 per picul, will take effect from 16th july 1980. It will cost about $128 million for this year, and $328 million for the whole of 1981.

Clearly, the demonstrating farmers of Kedah in Alor Star in January this year, whatever the cause and effect, or the legal right and wrongs, have achieved results in forcing the government to be more sympathetic to the hardships and poverty faced by the padi farmers.

The increase in subsidy is also a confirmation that despite the $300 million spent on the gigantic Muda Irrigation Scheme to double-crop, plant high-yield varieties and increase the productivity and incomes of the padi farmers, the problem of poverty and backwardness remain as intractable as ever,

The Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Mahathir bin Mohamed, said in Jitra on Monday that the government would be paying the increased padi subsidy from the oil revenues from trengganu oil off-shore.

But the question which must be answered is whether the increase in padi subsidy is the best way to alleviate the poverty and hardships of the padi farmers, or whether the $128 million subsidy this year, the $328 million subsidy next year and each subsequent year, could be more effectively spent in resolving the root causes of padi farmers poverty and backwardness.

A recent study of the Muda Region from 1955-1976 has shown that the hundreds of million of dollars infrastructural development in Muda Region have benefitted the absentee landlords and prosperous large farmers at the expense of small farmers and tenant-operators.

This study found a rapid polarization where “at one end is the growing number of large farmers cultivating an increasing proportion of the land; at the other, also a growing number of small farmers operating a decreasing proportion of land.”
	
This study, by the Centre for Policy Research at the University Sains Malaysia, found that large landowners (holding above 2.8 hectares) numbered only 11% of the Muda farming population, but their lands spread to 42% of the total average. The smallholders (below a hectare) accounted for 62% of the farmers, but owned only 22% of the padi land.

The tenant operators, who are the poorest of the poor in Muda, have been the hardest hit by the Muda Irrigation Scheme. About 7,000 or so tenant-households had been displaced by the prosperous farmers in the last decade –to become agricultural labourers or to nigrate to towns to become the proletarian poor.

The study said “we can safety say  that many of the tenants and small landlords must be poised on the brink of marginalization. The on-going and inter-related processes of mechanization of padi production and accumulation of large padi farms are likely to aggravate the already difficult situation of the small farmers in the Muda region in the decade ahead.”

The study estimates that there are about 700 big landlord with land over 9.5 hectares. About half of this is operated by small tenants. Another 8,600 large farmers own padi lands of 2.8-9.5 hectares.if ownership of there large holding is redistributed among tenants, average small farm size could rise to around a hectare. With rents representing one-third of padi output for a tenant, land-to-the-tiller programme would immediately raise the income of the tenant farmers by 30%.

The study estimates that it would cost the government some $45.6 million to redistribute land in Muda at market value. I do not know whether this is an accurate valuation, but even if it is in the rigion of $300 million, such a redistribution would still confer greater and more lasting benefits to the small padi farmers and tenants and at a cheaper price. The costly $328 million a year subsidy would only increase the income of the padi farmers by some 30% for each of the two crops per year, while the redistribution of land in Muda, even if it costs $300 million, would increase the income of tenants farmers by 30% for all crop, apart from incentives for increased productivity and higher incomes.

Without a land-to-the-tiller programme, the main beneficiaries of public development expenditure and subsidies will be the ‘big man’ not many programme launched in the name of helping the ‘smallman’ had ended up in benefitting the ‘big man’


I know that politically, it is difficult for the government to launch a land-to-the-tiller programme in Muda, as the absentee landlords and large prosperous farmers comprise the backbone of UMNO. However, as what is proposed is not outright expropriation  but land redistribution accompanied by market-value compensation, such a programme would enable then landlord to make use of their compensating funds to participate in other commercial and industrial ventures.

If the Finance Minister is truly concerned about the plight of the ‘smallman’, then he should get the government to adopt such a ‘land-to-the-tiller’ programme which would be a real benefit to the ‘smallman’.


Inflation

Inflation is what the Malaysian ‘smallman’ suffer from most. The Finance Minister said the Consumer Price index is estimated to increase by about 7% this year, as compared to the earlier budget estimate of 5-6%. The CPI has ceased to be a reliable index for most Malaysian, in particular the long suffering housewives, who find a galloping inflation eating away the purchasing value of the Malaysian ringgit and who would think the Finance Minister making a joke when he spoke of 7% inflation.

The ready approval by the Minister of Trade and Industry of price increases inessential items like sugar, petroleum and oil products, following the creation of artificial shortage, have not convinced Malaysian consumers that the government is zealous in protecting consumer from exploitation and profiteering by manufacturers and their agents.

Although Minister every now and then call on consumers and consumer organisations to be more outspoken of their right, it is the government which is the first to deny consumers and consumer organisation the right to help determine the validity of any price increase by participating in the decision-making.

The DAP reiterates our call for the establishment of a Price Justification Tribunal to protect the consumers from unscrupulous pricing and profiteering by manufacturers and their agents.

The private sector work force are disappointed that the Finance Minister had not taken the opportunity of the Budget speech to restore their real wages, in like with the 14%-28% salary increase for the 700,000 public servants.

Attempts by private sector unions and workers to secure wage increases to keep in step with inflationary development have in fact been frowned upon by the government. This can only generate industrial unrest and instability as highlighted by the stoppages in the union-banned sector of Bayan Lepas Industrial Free Trade zone in Penang recently.

The government should advise the private sector to revise the salary structures on their employees, whether in the form of a payment of a Special Relief Allowance or otherwise, to ensure that workers do not suffer in the form of a lower standard of living because of the ravages of inflation.

In this connection, the DAP called on the Government to seriously consider introducing legislation to provide for Indexation of Wages to the Cost of Living, whereby every year, there is an automatic adjustment of worker salaries to keep in step with inflation.

The increase in the rate of contribution to EPF from 13% to 20% of the wages of the workers, of which 11% will be contribution by the employer and 9% by the employee is welcome, provided it does not lead to a reduction in the real take-home pay of the workers. In the absence of compensatory wage adjustments upward for the lower-income group in the private sector, such an increase of EPF contribution on the part of the workers would cause hardships. 

I would therefore call on the Finance Minister to proceed with the 11% contribution on the part of employer and to suspend the 9% contribution on the part of the employee until such time as there is a wage revision which would not lead to a reduction of take-home pay of the workers.

The government’s consideration of a scheme to enable EPF contributors to utilise some part of their saving at EPF to own homes is to be welcomed.

However, I must say that the government’s performance on the housing front has been one of the greatest failures of the Third Malaysia Plan.

The Government cannot be unaware that housing is one of the basic human need, and that housing development in the past few years have virtually made cheap and decent housing beyond the mean of the majority of Malaysians who come from the low income groups.

Yet apart from Ministerial speeches and statement calling on the people to be patient, the government has done practically nothing to break the back of the problem of housing shortage in the country. 

The announcement of increase of allocation of housing votes for the various State Government in the Budget does not herald any new era in housing seriousness, as the implementation capacity of the State Government is probably among the lowest, if not the lowest, of all public sector developments.

And where a few low-cost houses have been built, they do not go to the genuinely needy, but are parcelled out as a form of political patronage among party hacks and local leaders of the component ruling Parties, as happened in Kulim in Kedah recently.

A government which is concerned about the ‘smallman’ must recognise and respect the human right to a roof over his head with minimum standard of amenity, security of tenure and location within reach of employment opportunities.

The slums and squatters especially in the urban areas in Malaysia are a physical illustration of the poverty of the smallman, and a visual reflection of inequalities of income and wealth.

A Government of the ‘smallman’ must launch a nation-wide public low-cost housing crash programme to clear the slums and squatters, and provide decent shelter for every Malaysian.

Until the Government has built adequate public low-cost housing for the poor, the Government must use its legislative and enforcement powers to protect the security of tenure of the poor from eviction by unscrupulous and unconscionable landlord.

The Government cannot claim to understand or sympathise with the sufferings and hardships of the poor for a decent shelter when it could sit on the Ministerial Committee Report on the 1966 Rent Control Act for some five years doing nothing. . Every day of inaction on this matter is a day of licence to unscrupulous and unconscionable landlords to throw poor tenants out onto the streets.

Until there are enough public low-cost housing for the poor, the Rent Control Act 1966 must be extended to provide protection for houses built after 1948. I hope that the Finance Minister can live up to his new concern for the ‘smallman’ in the context of the total housing needs of the poor, including security of tenure for the low-income tenants.
	
The blatant abuses in the housing industry, the demand fir under-the-table money, the bottlenecks at the State Government level in conversion and subdivision and processing of plan, leading to the fantastic increase of house price and corruption and malpractices in the various stages of housing approval stage, have become so scandalous that it is only matched by the even greater scandal of government apathy, indifference and inaction.

The entire housing industry must be shaken up, but to do that, the country needs a Housing Authority vested with all powers and authority to get housing, and in particular low-cost public housing, moving. All the Housing Ministers in the country has have proved to be only good in making beautiful speeches and forecast, but abysmall in delivering goods.
 
