+++ 
title: "Second airline for Malaysia, especially Sabah and Sarawak?"
date: "1981-10-02"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary- General and MP for Petaling, Lim Kit Siang, in Kuala Lumpur on Friday, Oct.2, 1981:_

# Second airline for Malaysia, especially Sabah and Sarawak?

At the forthcoming Parliamentary meeting which begin on Oct. 12 and adjourns on Dec. 8, I will be asking the Prime Minister whether the government had decided to set up a second airline for domestic services. My question to the Prime Minister is:</u>

1. To ask the Prime Minister the result of the government’s review with regard to the establishment of a second airline for domestic services, in view of the unsatisfactory internal air services of MAS, especially for Sarawak and Sabah, where air travelers had to pay very much higher fares as compared to Peninsular routes, and the gross inadequacy of internal air services to meet the internal communications needs of the country, in particular Sarawak and Sabah.

My other question in the upcoming Parliamentary meeting are:

2. To ask the Prime Minister whether the Government would establish a Royall Commission of Inquiry to study the problem of corruption and recommend measures to combat it as corruption in public life has become rampant since Merdeka 24 years ago.

3. To ask the Minister of Home Affairs whether the Government would issue a White Paper on the history, extent, tactics, effect of Soviet attempt to infiltrate and subvert the higher reaches of Malaysian government and society, ever since the establishment of the Soviet embassy in Kuala Lumpur.

4. To ask the Prime Minister whether Government would establish an Ombudsman to protect the ordinary citizen from maladministration and abuse of power in view of the ineffectiveness of the Public Complaints Bureau.

5. To ask the Prime Minister to state the number of civil servants, giving their grades and position, who were:

(i) dismissed;
(ii) disciplined on grounds of public interest;
For 1980 and 1980; and to give a breakdown of those ‘public interest’ reasons.

6. To ask the Minister of Home Affairs the reasons the police refused to give permission for lion dance troupes to participate in the National Day parades and processions in various parts of the country, when Malaysian Chinese wish to fully participate in the National Day celebrations with their cultural contributions.

7. To ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs whether he is aware that Thai military, police and political leaders are unhappy with the Malaysian Government’s relationship with POLU (Pattani United Liberation Organisation), which would strain Thai Malaysia relations at a critical time, and what action the Malaysian Government has taken to prevent this matter from complicating Thai- Malaysia relations.

8. To ask the Minister of home Affairs whether the Government would charge Siddiq Ghouse Mohamad, former political secretary to Dr, Mahathir Mohamad, for being a KBG spy, and if not, why not.
 
