+++ 
title: "DAP letter officially sent"
date: "1981-07-09"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Petaling, Lim Kit Siang, at DAP KL office, 63-D Jalan Sultan, Kuala Lumpur on Thursday, 9th July 1981 at 11.30a.m._

# DAP letter officially sent to Datuk Lee San Choon, Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, Tan Sri Ong Kee Hui and Datuk Samy Vellu to invite all MCA, Gerakan, SUPP and MIC, Ministers, Deputy Ministers, Parliamentary Secretaries and MPs to join with all DAP MPs to move a motion in Parliamnet to condemn UMNO Youth Leader, Haji Suhaimi Kamaruddin, for extremist and chauvinist speeches seriously undermining national unity.

I have officially written to  datuk Lee San Choon, Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, Tan sri Ong Kee Hui and Datuk Samy Vellu to propose that all  MCA, Gerakan, SUPP and MIC ministers, Deputy Minister, Parliamentary secretaries and MPs join with all DAP MPs to jointly sponsor a motion in the next meeting for Parliament to condemn UMNO youth President, Haji Suhaimi Kamaruddin, for this extremist and chauvinist speeches at UMNO Youth General Assemblies which seriously undermine national unity.</u>

I have asked Datuk Lee, Dr. Lim , Tan Sri Ong and Datuk Samy to reply, if possible within two week, so that a meeting, if necessary, Haji Suhaimi for his extremist and chauvinist speeches and demands, which have cause such a great setback to national harmony and untiy in the country. Of course, if Datuk Lee, Dr. Lim, Tan Sri Ong and Datuk Samy’s replies are in the negative, there would be no need for any such meeting.

My letter to four Barisan component party leaders read:

“Dear President,

As you are aware, the UMNO Youth Leader, Haji Suhaimi Karmaruddin, at the recent UMNO Youth assembly made the extremist and chauvinist call for the slowing down of the economic growth of the non-Malays and the prohibiton of the non-Malays from buying foreigners’ shares.

It appears to have become an annual occasion for Haji Suhaimi to make use of the UMNO Youth Assembly to spout extremisms in utter disregard of the rights and sensitivities of the other racial groups in the country, seriously undermining national unity and inter-racial relations.

Last year, for instance, at UMNO Youth Assembly, Haji Suhaimi made three highly divinsive calls, namely:

•	the imposition of control on the economic progress of non-bumiputra to reduce the economic gap between them and the bumiputra;
•	the raising of the quota of housing to be set aside for bumiputras in housing schemes from 30 to 55 per cent;
•	the implementation of clause 21(2) of the 1961 Education Act to convert Chinese and tamil primary schools into national primary schools.

you will also remember that recently, Haji Suhaimi successfully opposed the acquisition of the majority shares of the United Malayan Banking Corporation by the Multi-Purpose Holdings Bhd.

In making such extremist and chauvinist demands, Haji Suhaimi had completely disregarded the multi-racial nature of Malaysia, and even more important, the New Economic Policy principle that in its implementation, ‘no particular group would experience and loss or feel any sense of deprivation.’

Malaysia can only succeed, prosper and progress if extremism and chauvinism in any form is not allowed to rear its ugly head and any attempt to rear such ugly head is immediately smacked down. If the voices of moderation are not prepared to make themselves felt, then they will soon be drowned by the sirens of extremism.

The DAP feels that the extremism and chauvinism of Suhaimi variety had been allowed a field day for too long, and that the time has come for such extremism and chauvinism to be publicly exposed and denounced to deny them a lease of life.

The proper place to do this is in Parliament, and for this reason, I am writing to you to suggest that all MCA, Gerakan, SUPP and MIC Ministers, Deputy Ministers, Parliamentary Secretaries and m Members of parliament together with all the DAP MPs, jointly sponsor a motion in the next Parliamentary meeting to condemn in no uncertain terms Haji Suahimi’s undermined national unity in the country.

If all MCA, Gerakan, SUPP,MIC Ministers, Deputy Ministers, Parliamentary Secretaries and Members of Parliament, together with DAP Mps, are prepared to take a common united stand against extremism and chauvinism which shows no regard for the rights and sensitivities of the other racial groups, then a great step would be taken to ensure that the voices of reason and moderation would not be drowned by the siren of extremism chauvinism.

The DAP suggests that all MCA, Gerakan, SUPP, MIC Ministers, Deputy Minister, Parliamentary Secretaries and Members of Parliamentary, together with DAP MPs, put down their name in support of such a motion and send it to the speaker of Parliamentary as a formal notification.

We in the DAP have no objection if you, or any other Barisan Nasional component party leader, should want to introduce this motion in Parliament and be the principal speaker, as we in the DAP would be content to participate in any effort which stem the rising tide of extremism to ensure the triumph of moderation and reason in the country.

I hope that you reply, if possible, within two weeks so that a meeting, if necessary, could be arranged to finalise the joint Parliamentary motion to condemn Haji Suhaimi for his extremist and chauvinist speeches and demands. Of course, if you reply is in the negative, then there is no need for such a meeting.
 
