+++ 
title: "DAP calls for one day official mourning to mark Malaysia’s respect for Indira Gandhi on her funeral on Saturday"
date: "1984-11-01"
tags:
+++

_Statement by Parliamentary opposition Leader DAP Secretary-General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, when visiting the Indian High Commission to sign the condolence book on Indira Gandhi’s death on Thursday, 1.11.1984_

# DAP calls for one day official mourning to mark Malaysia’s respect for Indira Gandhi on her funeral on Saturday

The whole world must be shocked by the assassination of Indira Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Although she had been a controversial Indian Prime Minister, and the storming of the holiest Sikh shrine, the Golden Temple of Amritsar in June, had been regarded as an act of sacrilege by Sikhs, her assassination is totally reprehensible and must be condemned by all right-minded people in the world.</u>

The people of Indian has lost, a leader of world stature, and the Non-Aligned Nations an outspoken champion of the rights of the Third world.

The DAP Calls on the Malaysian Government to have one day official mourning on Indira Gandhi’s funeral on Saturday to mark Malaysia’s respect for the chairman of the Non-Aligned Nations Conference, and that the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, should represent Malaysia at Indira Gandhi’s funeral to show the great respect Malaysia has for Indira Gandhi.

It would be a greater tragedy if Indira Gandhi’s assassination spark off greater division and disunity in India. The new Indian Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi, has now the great responsiblity of steering away India from the abyss of violence and threat to the her national integrity and unity.

DAP welcome Dr. Mahathir’s announcement that BMF inquiry interim report would be made public soon

The DAP welcomes the announcement by the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, that the BMF inquiry committee interim report would be made public soon.

It is high time that the Government honour its pledge that there would be no ‘cover up’ of the BMF inquiry report, especially as it is now over two months since the completion and presentation of the Ahmad Nordin committee interim report to the authorities.

The Ahmad Nordin committee has worked on a second report, suggesting persons against whom action should be taken for the $2.5 billion BMF scandal.

I call on the Prime Minister to release the second report of the Ahmad Nordin inquiry committee without any undue delay as had happened in the case of the interim report.

The Prime Minister should realise that the scandal cannot be covered up, for the people demand, and have the right to expect, the fullest accounting on how such vast sums of public monies had been squandered away by the BMF in Hong Kong.
 
