+++ 
title: "Call on public boycott of the 52 Malacca MCA Branch 5,000 people dinner on August 8 to protect against the plot of ‘Level and Develop Bukit China faction "
date: "1984-07-18"
tags:
+++

_Leader, DAP Secretary-General Lim Kit Siang, In Malacca on Wednesday._

# Call on public boycott of the 52 Malacca MCA Branch 5,000 people dinner on August 8 to protect against the plot of ‘Level and Develop Bukit China faction 

Chan Took Chan and Ng Peng Huay’s statements in the last few days have brought out into the public the ^ of a ‘Level and Develop Bukit China faotion’ in the MCA and the Chinese community which is plotting to help the Malacca Chief Minister, Datuk Abdul Rahim Thumby Cik, ^ in the government plan to level and develop Bukit China into a housing and commercial centre, and ^ the earth for land reolamation projects.</u>

They started by shouting as if to give the people the ^ they are saying ‘no’ to the government’s plan to level and develop Bukit China, when actually they are saying ‘yes’ to the Malacca Chief Minister. 

On Monday, in Parliament, I pointed out to a top Tan Koon Swan faction leader that Chan Tock Chan was doing this, and to ^ just like Teo Ann Chuan’.

The ‘Level and Develop Bukit China’ faction has become so successful that it has got 52 rebel MCA branches to support it, to the extent that they made an appeal to all Chinese organisations inside and outside Malacca not to issue any more statement expressing opposition to the Malacca State Government’s plan to level and develop Bukit China.

They even decided to organise a mammoth 5,000-people dinner on August 8 to ask the people to show support to the ‘Level and Develop Bukit China faction’ so that the Malacca Chief Minister, Datuk Abdul Rahim Thamby Cik would have even stronger reasons ^ the GBB’s so-called 20,000-signature memorandum to push ahead with his Bukit China plan.

I call on all these from the 52 Branches of the Tan Koon Swan faction who attended the Sunday meeting expressing full support for the ‘Level and Develop China faction’ to give a full last of their names to the public, as that everyone throughout Malacca and Malaysia will know who are these ‘vanguards’ of the Malacca Chief Minister’s ‘Level and Develop Bukit China faction’.

The ‘Level and Develop Bukit China faction’ is not content with getting 52 MCA Branches in Malacca to support them, or to organise a 5,000-people dinner to give the Chief Minister full support, but it has started to put pressure on the Chinese organisations inside and outside Malacca to ^ their line.

The first organisation which they had chosen to put the maximum pressure is the Cheng Hoon Teng Temple, the trustees of Bukit China, and the Malacca Chinese Chamber of Commerce.

Yesterday, the Management Committee of the Malacca Chinese Chamber of Commerce held an emergency meeting, where for over three hours, the ‘Level and Develop Bukit China faction’ led by Chan Tock Chan demanded that the Malacca CCC should dissociate from Cheng Hoon Teng Temple if the trustees are opposed to development of Bukit China, and demanding hat the Malacca CCC should publicly reverse its previous stand that it would abide by the decision of Cheng Hoon Teng Temple on the future of Bukit China.

Chan Teck Chan, who domirated at least 60 per cent of the meeting time, argued that since the Malacca State ^ wanted to develop Bukit China, why should the Chinese community oppose it and lose the right to participate in the development. He maintained that as the Malacca Chinese Chamber of Commerce is the highest Chinese organisation in the State, it should take its own stand on the Bukit China issue and ^ follow that of Cheng Hoon Tong Temple.

When the overwhelming majority of the Management Committee rejected Chan Teck Chan’s demand that the Malacca CCC should take its own stand on Bukit China separate and different ^ that of Cheng Hoon Teng Temple, Chan Took Chan, Ng Peng Huay and Datuk Tan Chong Seww demanded that the minutes should record their objection to the Malacca CCC adopting a common line on Bukit China with that of Cheng Hoon Teng Temple.

Chan Took Chan also demanded that Cheng Hoon Teng Temple should not proceed with the advertisement in the newspapers inviting views from interested parties on the Government’s plan to develop Bukit China, at least not until after the Malacca Chief Minister’s speech in the Malacca State Assembly on July 23 on the government plan to develop Bukit China.
The ‘Level and Develop Bukit China’ faction have now shown their true colours, and the public, in particular the Chinese in Malacca and Malaysia, must ^ through their plot.

I call for a public boycott of the ‘Level and Develop Bukit China faction’ 5,000-People Dinner on August 8, so that the Chinese in Malacca could ^ repudiate those who for their own interests are prepared not only to ^ oultural roots but the wishes of the community itself.

Those who have bought tickets for the 5,000-People Dinner on August 8 of the ‘Level and Develop Bukit China faction’ should immediately demand for their monies to be returned, and it they find any difficulty, they could contact the Malacca DAP State Save China Committee.

All those who go round selling tickets for the 5,000-People Dinner on August 8 should be publicly ^ as so why they are prepared to be the Malacca Chief Minister’s ‘vanguard’ to level and develop Bukit China.

The 5,000-People Dinner of August 8 of the ‘Level and Develop Bukit China faction’ should be made to be a utter failure, for this would show the Malacca Chief Minister that his plans have no support whatsoever from the Chinese community. The Malacca people should also ^ who are the people who are prepared to attend the August 8 meeting to express support for the destruction of Bukit China.            
 
