+++ 
title: "DAP shocked by Gerakan President, Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, has endorsed Dr. Lim Chong Eu’s action in trying to sabotage the 200,000 ‘Save Bukit China’ Mass Signature Campaign"
date: "1984-08-13"
tags:
+++

_Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, on the launching of the 200,000 ‘Save Bukit China’ Mass Signature Campaign in Selangor State at Klang on Monday, 13.8.1984 at 8 p.m._

# DAP shocked by Gerakan President, Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, has endorsed Dr. Lim Chong Eu’s action in trying to sabotage the 200,000 ‘Save Bukit China’ Mass Signature Campaign

Today’s press (Sing Pin Jih Pao) reported the Gerakan President, Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, as criticising the 200,000 Save Bukit China mass signature campaign as only capable of ‘arousing racial sensitivities’. </u>

The Gerakan Chief Minister of Penang, Dr. Lim Chong Eu, said exactly the same thing a week ago.

I am shocked that the Gerakan President, Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, has now publicly endorsed Dr. Lim Chong Eu’s stand in trying to sabotage the 200,000 ‘Save Bukit China’ Mass Signature Campaign launched by the DAP.

I commend Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, Dr. Lim Chong Eu and the Gerakan leaders for being ‘brave and outspoken’ political leaders, who have no hesitation in condemning the DAP for raising sensitive feelings when all that we tried to do is to protect Bukit China in Malacca, while they dare not murmur any dissenting voice at the Malacca Chief Minister for raising sensitive issues in wanting to level and develop 80 per cent of Bukit China.


The Robber’s logic of Dr. Lim Keng Yaik and Dr, Lim Chong Eu

The logic of Dr. Lim Keng Yaik and Dr. Lim Chong Eu is the robber’s logic. When a robber puts the knife to the neck of the victim and warns him not to shout or resist so as to create a ‘sensitive and delicate’ situation, there would be those who would blame the victim for resisting the robbery by shouting for help or fighting the robber.

In this case, when the religious, historic, cultural, political rights of the Chinese community is being threatened by the unilateral and arbitrary action of the Malacca State Government in wanting to deprive them of the 500-year-old community trust property of Bukit China, there are those who blame the people who resist such encroachment instead of blaming the State Government for creating the furore.

Dr. Lim Keng Yaik said that the Bukit China issue is solely within the rights of the Malacca State Government, and even the Prime Minister, Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, could not interfere. If this is the case, why should Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, who is not from Malacca, go to the Malacca Gerakan State Convention last month to express support for the State Government’s ‘creative development’ of Bukit China in which part of the hill would be developed and part of the hill retained for its historical interest.

The Malacca Chief Minister, Datuk Abdul Rahim Thamby Cik, would have been encouraged by Dr. Lim Keng Yaik’s support for ‘creative development’ of Bukit China, which was made before his Malacca State Assembly speech of July 23 setting out the so-called three options for the development of Bukit China, which amounts to no option at all.

I call on Dr. Lim Keng Yaik to explain why he supported in principle the Malacca State Chief Minister’s ‘creative’ development of Bukit China, where 80 per cent would be levelled and developed into housing and commercial centre, and the earth used for land reclamation, while the remaining 20 per cent retained for historical and tourist interest.

He should also explain why he and Dr. Lim Chong Eu want to hinder and sabotage the 200,000 ‘Save Bukit China’ mass signature campaign launched by the DAP.
 
