+++ 
title: "Warning to Datuk Harris Salleh and Abdul Hamid Awang that they would be sued for defamation of character"
date: "1984-09-17"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Monday, 17.9.1984:_

# Warning to Datuk Harris Salleh and Abdul Hamid Awang that they would be sued for defamation of character the very instant they repeat the Bongawah Assemblyman’s speech in Sabah Assembly that I have received $1 million ‘in adavanca’ and Fung Ket Wing $100000 from Tun Mustapha											
I want to remind the Sabah Chief Minister, Datuk Harris Salleh and he Berjaya Bongawan Assemblyman, Abdul Hamid Awang, that I have accepted the Berjaya challenge for them to repeat to repeat the Bongawan Assemblyman’s speech at the Chinese Assembly Hall in Kuala Lumpur at 8 p.m. tomorrow that I have received $1 million form Tun Mustapha as ‘advance’ money and Sdr. Fung Ket Wing, DAP MP for Sandakan, had received $100000 from Tun Mustapha.</u>

The whole country will wait to see whether Harris Salleh and Abdul Hamid have the guts to perform their part of the challenge, or whether Harris Salleh and Abdul hamid Awang will again ‘do a Harris Salleh’ and back out from the challenge.

I also want to warn Harris Salleh and Abdul Hamid Awang that they would be sued for defamation of character the very instant they repeat the Bongawan Assemblyman’s speech in the Sabah Assembly on 12th Sept. 1984 that I had received $1 million ‘in advance’ from Tun Mustapha while Sdr. Fung Ket Wing had received $100000.

To keep this Chinese Assembly Hall date tomorrow night at 8 p.m., I will have to go down to Alor Gajah tomorrow where four DAP cadres who were arrested on Sept. 2 in connection with the DAP Socialist Youth Kuala Lumpur-Malacca ‘Save Bukit China’ Cycle-thon would be produced in court, and then rush back to KL again the same day.

Srd. Karpal Singh will be in the Kuala Lumpur Chinese Assembly Hall tomorrow night to sue Harris Salleh and Abdul Hamid Awang once they have repeated their allegations outside the Sabah State Assembly that I have received $1 Million from Tun Mustapha and that Sdr. Fung Ket Wing had received $100000 from Tun Mustapha.

 
