+++ 
title: "DAP to officially launch the Defend Sabah State Constitution Campaign at the Chinese Assembly Hall on Monday, Sept. 3 after repeating the Parliamentary speech on July 23, 1984"
date: "1984-08-27"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, at DAP PJ Hqrs on Monday, August 27 1984 at 12 noon_

# DAP to officially launch the Defend Sabah State Constitution Campaign at the Chinese Assembly Hall on Monday, Sept. 3 after repeating the Parliamentary speech on July 23, 1984

The DAP will officially launch the Defend Sabah State Constitution campaign at the Chinese Assembly Hall, Kuala Lumpur, on Monday, Sept. 3 after I had repeated my parliamentary speech on the Report of the Committee of Privileges on Fung Ket Wing-Harris Salleh on the Labuan land ownership the speech which I was challenged by Datuk Harris Salleh to repeat in Sandakan Dewan Masyarakat at 10 a.m. this morning but who, in the last minute, chickened out by banning me from entry into Sabah via Kota Kinabalu. I would repeat my speech at 8 p.m. on Sept. 3.</u>

The DAP will reserve a special seat for Datuk Harris Salleh at the Chinese Assembly Hall on Sept. 3 night, with his name tag prominently displayed. He could either have the courage to come personally to attend and listen to my repeat entire parliamentary speech, or his empty seat would be a loud and clear reminder of his ‘chicken out’ of the situation.

The Defend Sabah State Constitution campaign would be launched on next Monday, and would be carried out not only in Sabah but also throughout Malaysia, for the sanctity of the Sabah State Constitution concerns not only the people of Sabah, but every Malaysian as well.

If a Chief Minister in Sabah is allowed to violate the State Constitution with impunity, then there is no State Constitution or even the Federal Constitution which is inviolate. If the Sabah Chief Minister could abuse his powers and breach the trust placed on him by the people, then any other State Government leader or Federal government leader could do the same.

The defence of the Sabah State Constitution is therefore in effect the defence of the systems of Constitutional government at both Federal and State levels in Malaysia.

Dr. Mahathir should clarify whether there is any truth in Datuk Harris Salleh’s claim that the Prime Minister had authorised him to violate the Sabah State Constitution

Another objective of the Defend Sabah State Constitution Campaign would be to demand high political, moral and ethical standards of its political leaders.

Datuk Harris Salleh had claimed that he had informed the Prime Minister of his directorships in three companies in his declaration of asserts and that the Prime Minister knew about his involvement in the companies during his tenure as Chief Minister of Sabah.

Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed should clarify whether there is any truth in Datuk Harris Salleh’s claim that the Prime Minister had authorised him to violate Article 6(5) of the Sabah State Constitution which prohibits the Chief Minister from actively engaging in any commercial enterprise.

Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed cannot continue to keep silent, for Datuk Harris Salleh’s claim is damaging enough to his administration’s slogan of wanting a ‘Clean, Efficient and Trustworthy’ Government. In fact, the Prime minister’s continued silence would raise doubts about the value and purpose of private declaration of asserts made to the Prime Minister by Ministers, Deputy Ministers, Chief Ministers and Menteri Besar, State Ministers and State Executive Councillors.

I had been asked why I insisted on going on to Kota Kinabalu to enter Sabah vie the front door as Datuk Harris had confirmed my ban from Sabah through Kota Kinabalu.

I was in fact hoping that up till the last minute, Datuk Harris would like the ‘Prodigal Son’ reform his irresponsible ways, and for the sake of the country’s democratic traditional and international reputation, lift the ban arbitrarily imposed on me.

Yesterday’s press also carried a hard-hitting speech by the Prime Minister criticising political leaders who abused their powers. Dr. Mahathir said that such abuses of power by political leaders ‘will only lead to a setback for the country when the Government is striving to bring progress to the country. We want to achieve the status of a developed country and not the tag of a developing country.’

Datuk Harris Salleh should study and digest the Prime Minister’s words, so that he would not continue to cause setback to Malaysia’s progress by his unconstitutional, irresponsible and unlawful actions as Sabah Chief Minister.

DAP demands releases of BMF inquiry interim report before August 31 to give substances to the National Day theme of ‘Trust is the Basis of Success’

Last Saturday, I sent a telegram to the Prime minister. Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir, urging the immediate public release of the Bumiputra Malaysia Finance inquiry interim report. I stressed that in view of the previous cover-up of the BMMF loans scandal, there should be no ‘cover-up’ of the BMF inquiry interim report.

I welcome the statement by the Finance minister, Daim Zainuddin, that he would ‘ask for every cent to be accounted for’ of the loans made to the Carrian Group and Eda Investments. The Finance Minister should explain why the third BMF debtor, Kevin Hsu, continues to be given special treatment, as the Kevin Hsu loans are not only not investigated by the BMF inquiry committee, but there seems to be no exertion on the BMF, Bank Bumiputra or the Government’s part to recover the loans given out to Kevin Hsu group.

I find it strange that Daim Zainuddin could dismiss as untrue a report saying that there were attempts to ‘cover up’ the involvement of BMF and Bank Bumiputra in the Carrian affairs in Hong Kong, when in the very next breath, the Finance Minister admitted that he had not studied the interim report yet.

There is no reason why the BMF inquiry interim report should not be released to the public simultaneously as its submission to the relevant authorities.

The DAP demands that the BMF inquiry interim report should be made public before August 31 to give substance to the National Day theme this year of ‘Trust is the Basis of Success’.
 
