+++ 
title: "Lim Kit Siang writes to Prime Minister proposing establishment of Royal Commission of Inquiry headed by Tunku Abdul Rahman to inquire into the problems and give recommendations to achieve National Unity in Malaysia"
date: "1985-09-05"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary- General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, at a thanksgiving reception for party workers for the DAP 28th National Day Celebration in Malacca to honour Tunku Abdul Rahman as Bapa Malaysia held at Coral Restaurant, Malacca on Thursday, 5th Sept. 1985 at 8 p.m._

# Lim Kit Siang writes to Prime Minister proposing establishment of Royal Commission of Inquiry headed by Tunku Abdul Rahman to inquire into the problems and give recommendations to achieve National Unity in Malaysia.

The National Day Theme this year is ‘Nationalisme Teras Perpaduan’. However, although in the face of an external threat or aggression, Malaysians of all races would be nationalistic enough to sink their differences to unite against the external aggressor, Malaysian nationalism is not strong enough to achieve national unity transcending racial, religious, linguistic and cultural differences during normal times.</u>

In fact, while Malaysia is celebrating the 28th National Day with the theme of ‘Nationalisme Teras Perpaduan’, there are various incidents in the Malacca celebrations which highlight the inability so far for such Malaysian nationalism to be a firm and solid basis to build national unity.

This is why at the DAP’s 28th National Day celebrations to honour Tunku Abdul Rahman as Bapa Malaysia held at Dewan Hang Tuah in Malacca on 30th August 1985, I suggested the establishment of a Royal Commission of Inquiry headed by Tunku Abdul Rahman to inquire into the problems of national unity in Malaysia, to strengthen the inner applications of Malaysian nationalism and prepare Malaysia to face the 21st century in 15 years’ time.

I will write to the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, formally making this proposal to him, and asking him to table this suggestion for adoption by the Cabinet.

The DAP is a nationalistic, patriotic Malaysian movement, whose leaders and members owe undivided loyalty to Malaysia. We are in the political struggle because of our love and commitment to Malaysia and its people, regardless of race.

In organising the 28th National Day celebrations to honour Tunku Abdul Rahman as Bapa Malaysia in Malacca on August 30, the DAP wanted to send a message to all Malaysians that National Day is a national event for all Malaysians and groups, which should be used to temporarily put aside our differences arid focus on our common national heritage, purpose and destiny.
 
