+++ 
title: "Lim Kit Siang writes to Prime Minister to ask for time to be allocated on July 14 for a Parliamentary debate on DAP motion to establish Royal Commission of Inquiry into widespread allegation and belief of rampant corruption, nepotism and conflict of interest in high political places"
date: "1986-07-05"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and Mp for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, at the launching of the new book, ‘Malaysia – Crisis of Identity’ in Ipoh on Saturday, 5.7.1986 at 1 p.m._

# Lim Kit Siang writes to Prime Minister to ask for time to be allocated on July 14 for a Parliamentary debate on DAP motion to establish Royal Commission of Inquiry into widespread allegation and belief of rampant corruption, nepotism and conflict of interest in high political places

The single biggest promise of Datuk Seri Dr.Mahathir Mohamed and the Barisan Nasional Government in the 1982 general elections is to create a ‘clean, efficient and trustworthy’ administration, and this is also the Barisan Nasional Government’s greatest failure to date.</u>

We have in fact reached a stage where Ministers and Barisan leaders are getting embarrassed whenever the slogan of  ‘clean, efficient and trustworthy’ are mentioned, for they know in their heart of hearts they had not honoured this pledge and slogan.

In fact, there are Ministers who have ceased to understand the real meaning of a ‘clean, efficient and trustworthy’ government. This explains the startling frankness of the MIC President and Minister for Works, Datuk Samy Vellu, who told MAIKA HOLDINGS annual general meeting last week that “business and politics cannot be separated and treated as different entities.” He said that in the past, business was business and politics was politics.”Now, they are interwoven.” 

He gave a very good illustration:”If there is no political influence, even a company with a paid-up capital of as much as $200million will not be able to make 20 cents.

It is a pity Datuk Samy Vellu did not give a full illustration, for he should have added, that with political influence, a company with a $2 paid up capital could make $200 million!

Malaysians have a right to ask whether Datuk Samy Vellu’s political morality typifies the morality of the Barisan National’s ‘clean, efficient and trustworthy’ motto?

No wonder, never before since Merdeka, have there been more widespread public allegation and belief about rampant corruption, nepotism, conflict of interest in high political places, ever and above the $2.5 billion BMF scandal, UMBC scandal, EPC scandal, Pan El scandal, Multi-Purpose Holding Scandal!

This has reached a stage where the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr.Mahathir Mohamed, himself complains that he is alleged to be one of the richest Prime Ministers in the world.  

Allegations of corruption, nepotism and conflict of interest in high political places in one of the root causes of the crisis of confidence confronting Malaysia, and a government and nation which cherishes its image and reputation of intergrity and incorruptibility should not allow such allegations to swirl around without taking effective counter-action.

It is for this reason, for the good name of Malaysia as will as the Mahathir government, that I have given notice to the Speaker of Dewan Rakyat, Tan Sri Zahir Ismail, that I propose to move a motion on the first day of Parliamentary meeting on July 14 to establish a Royal Commission of Inquiry to investigate into all the allegations of rampant corruption, nepotism and conflict of interest in high political places.

I have written to the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr.Mahathir Mohamed, to reserve the first Parliamentary sitting on July 14 for a full debate on this motion, which will in effect be a debate on the central Mahathir slogan of  ‘clean, efficient and trustworthy’ administration.

The DAP is prepared to help the Mahathir government to clear itself of all unfounded allegations of corruption, nepotism and conflict of interest in high political places by serving on the Royal Commission of Inquiry. The Royal Commission of Inquiry should investigate into all the allegations which are the subject of mountains of flying letters which cannot be ignored or disregarded, for they have reached a massive sqale.

For the Mahathir government to continue to ignore these flying letters alleging all forms of corruption, nepotism and improprieties by highly-placed political leaders would tantamount to admit guilt. 

I hope the UMNO, MCA Gerakan, MIC Minister and MPs would have the courage to support a parliamentary debate on this important issue, and that the Cabinet at its meeting next Wednesday would agree to a full-scale Parliamentary debate on my motion.

Lim Keng Yaik must be the most useless and incompetent political leaders in Malaysia
It has been a long-standing debate between MCA and Gerakan leaders as to who are useless than the other, but I must say, that it would appear that the Gerakan President, Dr.Lim Keng 
Yaik, must be the most useless and incompetent political leaders in Malaysia.

Last week, Dr Lim said that the policy of providing land titles for at least 60 years in new villages had been agraeed to 14 years ago in 1972 in a meeting of the then Mentris Besar; Chief Minister and Prime Minister, Tun Abdul Razak. Dr.Lim said he was at that time the Minister of Special 

Function to co-ordinate new village development.

Dr.Lim therefore claims that the recent announcement by Ghaffar Baba, Deputy Prime Minister, about renewal of new village leases is nothing new.

The question that immediately comes to mind is what did Dr.Lim Keng Yaik do to implement the 1972 decision on new village titles’ extension for at least 60 years .His excuse that he was sacked as Minister and MCA cannot be good reason for his inaction, which tantamount to political negligence.

He was a national Gerakan leader from the mid-1970s, until he became Gerakan President, yet he did nothing to get the Federal Government and the various state government to implement their 1972 agreement. Although he was Perak State Executive Councillor, he did nothing to ensure that at least for Perak State, all Perak new villages are given at least renewal of 60-years leases.
Surely, Dr.Lim Keng Yaik should realise that he had confessed to a 14-year political shame which is personal and special to himself !

Every time before general elections, the new villages are used as a ‘political football’ for the Barisan Nasional parties to try to win new village votes. Why didn’t the Barisan Nasional parties pay fair and just attention to the development of new villages, and the 1.5 million new village population, during normal times? This itself is a indication of whether the sudden realisation of the existence of new villagers in Malaysia by the Barisan leaders are sincere, or just election gimmick which will be a short-lived as their previous new-village awakenings in past general elections.
 
