+++ 
title: "DAP is prepared to be a party to the Opposition Front Pact if all reference to an Islamic State are dropped, or DAP will go it alone in the general elections"
date: "1986-07-19"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by DAP Secretary-General in DAP PJ Hqrs on Saturday, July 19, 1986 at 12 noon_

# DAP is prepared to be a party to the Opposition Front Pact if all reference to an Islamic State are dropped, or DAP will go it alone in the general elections

The DAP Central Executive Committee met last night in the general elections and the Opposition Front Pact.</u>

The DAP CEC reaffirmed that the coming general elections should have one all encompassing theme, to which all other issues should be subsumed, and this is the denial of two-third parliamentary majority of the Barisan Nasional.

The DAP Central Executive Committee had studied and discussed the Joint Declaration of Understanding reached by PAS, PSRM, NASMA and SDP on July 14 and concluded that as it stands, it is a Declaration which would pave the way for a future Islamic State in Malaysia.
The Declaration commits all signatory parties to accept PAS’ rights to struggle for an Islamic State, while acknowledging the independence of other parties. PAS’ Vice President, Haji Nakhaie’s statement in introducing the Declaration of Understanding that for now and the future, no signatory party could oppose the PAS’s struggle for an Islamic State, was also discussed at the CEC meeting.

The DAP CEC concludes that as the Declaration stands, the signatory parties accept PAS’ struggle for an Islamic State, and cannot in future oppose PAS’ struggle, which tantamounts to an acceptance of an Islamic State. The other parties have ‘independence’, whatever that means, but not ‘independence’ to oppose PAS’ objective of an Islamic State!

The DAP does not seek to impose its political objectives, which includes car uncompromising opposition to an Islamic State, on PAS; but we will not allow PAS to impose its Islamic State concept on us.

The DAP is prepared to be a party to the Opposition Front Pact provided all references to an Islamic State are omitted. In practical terms this means amendment or deletion of three paragraphs in the Declaration of Understanding, namely:

“1. All parties signing this Declaration accept PAS’ right to struggle for an Islamic State……”

  2. Uphold Islam as Ad-----De-en (a way of life based on truth, justice freedom and good values)……”

3. Recognising current political reality, wherein Islam and universal values are important bases in the struggle for justice, truth, freedom and stability, hence Islam and these values should be accepted as the basic for leadership.”

Furthermore, these must clear cut understanding that no signatory is bound in any manner to compromise its opposition to an Islamic State, whether for now or for the future.

If these references to an Islamic State in the Declaration of Understanding cannot be deleted, then the DAP will not be a party to the PACT and will it alone in the next general elections.
 
