+++ 
title: "DAP hails the Supreme Court decision quashing the government’s cancellation of the work permit of Asian Wall Street Journal correspondent, John Berthelsen, as a triumph for the rule of law"
date: "1986-11-04"
tags:
+++

_By Parliament Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General, MP for Tanjung and Assemblyman for Kampong Kolam, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Tuesday, 4.11.1986:_

# DAP hails the Supreme Court decision quashing the government’s cancellation of the work permit of Asian Wall Street Journal correspondent, John Berthelsen, as a triumph for the rule of law

The Supreme Court decision quashing the government’s cancellation of the work permit of Asian Wall Street Journal correspondent, John Berthelsen, holding that the rules of natural justice on the right to be heard applies, is a triumph of the rule of law.</u>

The Supreme Court decision is a shaft of light in the increasing darkness enshrouding the national landscape.

I call on the Cabinet to make a policy decision that it will fully respect the rules of natural justice in every government and administrative decision, and will take steps to ensure all government departmental heads understand the meaning of honouning the rules of natural justice in their decision-making process. I hope that the lawyers in the Cabinet would in particular emphasise the importance of incorporating the rules of natural justice as an essential ingredient of all administrative decision-making. This will eliminate arbitrary and unfair administrative decisions which create hardships and grievances among the people.

Dr. Lim Keng Yaik should not be a ‘political chameleon’ changing one colour in Cabinet and another colour in the Gerakan Central Committee

Yesterday, I commended Gerakan for taking a public stand opposing the Official Secrets Act (Amendment) Bill 1986, but apparently I had been too quick with my praise.

After his statement on Sunday stating the Gerakan Central Committee’s opposition to the OSA (Amendment)Bill, Dr. Lim Keng Yaik had to rush to see the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, to pledge his support for the Official Secret Act.

As a result, Dr. Lim Keng Yaik said yesterday that as a member of the Cabinet, he agreed to the Official Secret Act.

I advise Dr. Lim not to be a ‘political chamelon’, changing one colour in Cabinet, and another colour in the Gerakan Central Committee and public. How could Dr. Lim Keng Yaik claim that as a Cabinet member, he agreed to the OSA Amendment Bill, but as a member of the Gerakan Central Committee, he disagreed with the Bill?

I call on Dr.Lim Keng Yaik not to play games with the national future of Malaysians, and to take a clear cut stand on the OSA Amendment Bill, whether in Cabinet, the Gerakan Central Committee, Parliament or in public.

In any event, why should Dr. Lim Keng Yaik rush off to explain his Sunday statement to the Prime Minister yesterday, instead of waiting for the Cabinet meeting tomorrow to let the Cabinet know that he and the Gerakan Central Committee cannot support the OSA Amendment Bill, and that as the Cabinet has no more consensus on the Bill, it should forthwith be withdrawn from Parliament?

I hope that Dr. Lim Keng Yaik can have the good news after the Cabinet meeting tomorrow that as a result of his withdrawal of support to the OSA Amendment Bill, as decided by the Gerakan Central Committee on Sunday, the 1986 OSA (Amendment)Bill would be withdrawn as Cabinet lacks a consensus for its presentation to Parliament for continued reading.

Call on Finance Minister, Daim Zainuddin, to modify budget proposals on increase of housing and car loan interest to avoid gross hardship on/civil servants

Finance Minister, Daim Zainuddin, said he would announce more stringent conditions on eligibility for government housing loans when winding up the debate on the Budget speech.

I call on Daim Zainuddin to also announce modification of budget proposals on increase of housing and car loan interest from four to six per cent to avoid gross hardships on the civil servants.

I have been receiving numerous complaints by civil servants that the increase in housing and car loan interests should apply to the higher category of public officers and for all new loans.

One civilservant, who is drawing $1,660 salary and Special Relief Allownace of $125, bringing a total of $1,785, will have his take-home pay of $535 with the increasein car and housing loan interest.

This is the monthly take-home pay after the various deductions from the monthly $1,785:

Before budget							After 1987 Budget
Housing loan payments       $738                                                     Housing loan payment       $950
Car loan payment                 $332                                                    Car loan payment                $400
Income tax                            $  80                                                    Income tax                           $  80
Koperasi                               $  50                                                     Koperasi                              $  50
Others                                   $  50                                                     Others                                  $  50
Monthly take-home pay      $535                                                      Monthly take home pay      $255

This is indeed a most serious situation, which will not only create massive civil service unrest, affecting efficiency and service, but will spawn widespread corruption. This is because the Ministers and political leaders are not setting any example of sacrifice. The cancellation of perks and allowances of Minister are just elimination of ‘extravagances’ while civil servants in the lower categories are expected to have a sharp slash of their take-home pay which affect their necessities.
 
