+++ 
title: "Tape recording between Dr. Yacoob Merican and Berjaya leader Majid Khan has nothing to do with solicitor-client relationship"
date: "1986-04-03"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya, on Thursday, 3.4.1986:_

# Tape recording between Dr. Yacoob Merican and Berjaya leader Majid Khan has nothing to do with solicitor-client relationship

I have heard the tape recording of the conversation between lawyer, Dr. Yaacob Merican and Berjaya leader, Datuk Majid Khan referred to by Sabah Chief Minister, Datuk Joseph Pairin Kitingan, as a plot to people the PBS Government after the formation f a coalition government under the Sabah Formula.</u>

Dr. Merican had complained to the Human Rights Sub-Committee of the Bar Council that the tape recording was a breach of confidentiality between solicitor-client communication.

From the tape recording, it is clear that the conversation had absolutely nothing to do with solicitor-client relationship, as it was about a political plot to topple the PBS Government after the formation of a coalition government under the Sabah Formula proposed by the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed.

I cannot see how active participants in a political plot to topple the Sabah State Government could claim protection of confidentiality of solicitor-client relationship, or one day, such relationship would be used as a cover to carry out criminal or treasohous activities. 

Why is Attorney-General, Tan Sri Abu Talib Othman, dragging his feet in giving the ‘green light’ to arrest and prosecute political leaders involved in the 12-day campaign of demonstrations, bomb blasts, arson and rioting in Sabah?

I am very disturbed by the statement in today’s press from the Sabah Commissioner of Police, Haji Ahmad Maulana Babjee, that they Attorney-General would have to decide if any action should be taken against politicians involved in the recent demonstrations in Sabah.

I want to ask the Attorney-General, Tan Sri Abu Talib Othman, why he is dragging his feet in giving the ‘green light’ to the Sabah Police to arrest and prosecute political leaders involved in the 12-day campaign of demonstrations, bomb blasts, arson and rioting in Sabah?

I have today sent him a cable to the Attorney-general reminding him of his constitutional duty and asking him to act without fear or favour against the political leaders who had taken the law into their own hands, or the high office of Attorney-General would be seriously undermined.

My cable to the Attorney-General reads:

“Tan Sri Abu Talib Othman,
Attorney-General.

“From statement by Sabah Commissioner of Police in today’s press, it is clear that you have not given the ‘green light’ for the arrest and prosecution of political leaders involved in the 12-day campaign of demonstrations, bomb blasts, arson and rioting aimed at the overthrow of the elected Sabah State Government by unconstitutional means.

“Urge you to carry out your constitutional duty without fear or favour against political leaders implicated in the Sabah conspiracy, which had caused five deaths, 32 bomb explosions, 14 unexploded bombs, 14 injured, $10 million property damaged,

“Offences committed in the 12-day campaign of fear, unrest and violence includes:

(i) Rioting;

(ii) Sedition;

(iii) Offences against the state, namely treason, in using or showing force to atempt to topple the elected Sabah State Government;

(iv) Criminal Conspiracy.


Lim Kit Siang
Ketua Pembangkang”

Call on Government to have the basic courtesy to inform MPs beforehand if it is to defer the OSA Bill

After yesterday’s Cabinet meeting, Information Minister, Datuk Rais Yatim, indicated that the Bill to amend the Official Secrets Act may be deferred to the next parliamentary meeting.

The Government should have the basic courtesy to inform Members of Parliament beforehand if it has decided to defer the OSA Bill, so that MPs do not have to prepared for the Bill, especially as MPs have been asked to debate and pass 20 Bills in four days.

Of course, for Barisan Nasional MPs who would not debate, it makes no difference whether the Bill is deferred at the last minute or not. At present, the OSA Bill is placed last in the list of 20 Bills, and from past practice, it will probably come up for debate on Tuesday, April 8, at about 11 a.m. – with only one hour left before adjournment of the House.

This would be deplorable parliamentary practice. But if the Bill is to be deferred, then Parliament must be shown proper respect by being informed immediately.
 
