+++ 
title: ""
date: "1987-09-29"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung. Lim Kit Siang, in Malacca on Tuesday, 29.9.1987:_

# Support for proposal that government give facilities and privileges to Pak Sako for his contribution to the struggle for independence, literature and journalism.

Professor Syed Husin Ali proposed yesterday that Pak Sako (Dr. Ishak Haji Mohamed) should be given the facilities and privileges extended to former Prime Ministers for his contribution to the struggle for independence, literature and journalism.</u>

I support the proposal that the government give and privileges to Pak Sako for his contribution to the struggle for independence, literature and journalism of Malaysia, as recognition by the nation for Pak Sako’s sacrifice, dedication and contribution to the well-being of Malaysia.

I suggest that a special recognition be created by an Act of Parliament whereby the nation accord recognition to illustrious sons and daughters of Malaysia who had rendered distinguished life-long service to the people nation, but who may be out of the mainstream of official recognition, like Pak Sako.

If such an Act of Parliament is proposed, the DAP will give it full support. I will write to the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, to find out whether the government is prepared to introduce such legislative, or if it is not, whether he would agree to render time for a private member’s bill to set up such a special recognition to be introduced, debated and decided, where the Party Whip is lifted to allow all MPs the freedom to decide on the issue.

Distinguished Malaysians who are given recognition by this Act of Parliament, the selection of which should be made by a Commission answerable only to Parliament and not by any government committee, should be granted facilities and privileges spelt out by the Act.
 
