+++ 
title: "DAP to launch a two-month state-by-state campaign in August and September to strengthen party discipline and political commitment of party members"
date: "1987-06-13"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the Perak DAP State Committee meeting held at Perak DAP Hd premises on Saturday, 13.6.1987 at 8 p.m._

# DAP to launch a two-month state-by-state campaign in August and September to strengthen party discipline and political commitment of party members

In March 1987, the party formed a 1990s Movement National Task Force to prepare both the people and the party for the political challenge of the 1990s. If the DAP is going to be more effective in bringing about the political changes we desire in the country, then it is imperative that we inculeate among the people, as well as among party members, a long-term political perspective.</u>

We must stop living for today or tomorrow, but must plan for the next 10 or 20 years, if we are going to have a greater role in determining Malaysia’s future destiny.

A programme is being drawn up for the DAP National Task Foree for the 1990s Movement, which is headed by Deputy Secretary-General Sdr. Ahmad Nor, to carry out a nation-wide tour in August and September to kick off this campaign to imbue in party members, as well as in the population at large, a long-term political goal and commitment.

This will be an important political initiative of the DAP for this year.

The DAP Central executive Committee, at its recent meeting last week, had been gravely concerned at the need to strengthen party discipline and political commitment of party leaders and members.

In the Gopeng by-election, we have seen instances of how party members had forgotten why they are in the DAP, and who are prepared to undermine and destroy the credibility and future of the DAP for narrow selfish ends.

To coincide with the DAP 1990s Movement National Task Force state-by-state national programme in August and September, the Central Executive Committee will launch a two-month campaign to strengthen party discipline and political commitment of party leaders and members at the same time.

As an opposition party, DAP leaders and members must be fully aware of the hostile media environment which we operate in, and must not allow our political enemies the Barisan Nasional to exploit our internal differences and even weaknesses. Opposition party in Malaysia will get the respect or support of the people, if indiscipline is rife in the party.

The leadership is aware that in the past, certain party members further their objectives in the party, although such action put the party as a whole in a very bad light. The DAP cannot tolerate or condone the actions of such party members or leaders, who are prepared to cause grave damage to the party so long as they get their way in the party.

In the August/September campaign to strengthen party discipline and political commitment of party leaders and members, the party leadership will discuss very frankly the importance of party discipline and *****, giving examples of party indiscipline of party members or leaders in the past one year since the August 1986 general elections.

The DAP Central Executive Committee has issued a directive to the DAP Disciplinary Committee to be more strict in ensuring party discipline, for no opposition party in Malaysia can survive without a high and developed sense of discipline and commitment in the Party. 
 
