+++ 
title: "DAP to hold a Seminar of 24 DAP MPS and 37 Assemblymen in Kuala Lumpur on Oct.18 to evaluate the 14-month old performance of DAP elected representatives"
date: "1987-09-14"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung. Lim Kit Siang, at the official opening of the Tanjung Tuallang DAP Constituency Service at Tanjung Tuallang on Saturday, 14.9.1987 at 5.30 pm_

# DAP to hold a Seminar of 24 DAP MPS and 37 Assemblymen in Kuala Lumpur on Oct.18 to evaluate the 14-month old performance of DAP elected representatives					

The DAP will a seminar of 24 DAP MPS and 37 Assemblymen in Kuala Lumpur on Oct.18 to evaluate their record and performance in 
the 14 months since the August 3, 1986 general elections.</u>

The seminar will also review and decide on the roles the DAP MPs and assemblymen must bear in the 1990s Movement campaign, which will determine not only the future of the party but the people and nation for the next one or two decades.

DAP MPs and Assemblymen should realise that their election is not a personal honour, but a great trust imposed on them by the Party and the people, and their election as MP or Assemblymen is not the beginning of a rest, but the start of a more intensive commitment to serve the party , people and nation.

It is to be expected that with every passing year, the standards expected of MPs and Assemblymen will rise, and all DAP MPs and Assemblymen must continue to raise their standard of performance inside and outside Parliament or the State Assemblies.

DAP MPs and Assemblymen must be prepared to constantly improve themselves, whether in knowledge, experience, or command of language. DAP MPs and Assemblymen, if they are to be effective, must be conversant in Bahasa Malaysia, or they will be unable to represent their constituents in Parliament or State Assemblies.

The DAP have given the 24 DAP MPs and 37 Assemblymen a year to improve their command of Bahasa Malaysia, and a special unit will be formed to ascertain what progress has been made in this field.

For future general elections, the party leadership will insist that every candidate, whether for parliamentary or state elections, has command of Bahasa Malaysia so that on election, the MP or Assemblymen would not be handicapped by Bahasa Malaysia problem. I will suggest to the Party Central Executive Committee that all future candidates for parliamentary and state assembly elections must pass a Bahasa Malaysia test set by the party.

DAP supports the government campaign against the anti-palm oil lobby in the US by the American Soyabean Association (ASA)									
DAP fully supports the government campaign against the anti-palm oil lobby presently waged in the US by the American Soyabean Association (ASA), which will threaten Malaysia palm oil industry and Malaysia economic recovery prospects.

The ASA campaign is the most unfair trade practise, and the American Government must be made to understand that the bilateral relations between Malaysia and the US would be seriously affected if the US Government does not stand up for fair play and justice.

President Reagan should exercise the presidential veto to throw out the Tropical Oils Labelling Bill being canvassed by ASA if it is passed by US Congress, so that the American Government could prove to the world hat it is not a party to such blatant unfair trade practices.	 
