+++ 
title: "DAP decided to rejoin the Chinese Organisations/Political Parties Joint Action Committee."
date: "1987-10-22"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Parliament House on Thursday, 22nd October 1987:_

# DAP decided to rejoin the Chinese Organisations/Political Parties Joint Action Committee.

DAP has decided to re-join the Chinese Organisations/Political Parties Joint Action Committee. This was decided by DAP Central Working Committee, after considering the various calls by representatives of Chinese organisations, political parties and the public.</u>

DAP’s decision to withdraw from the Joint Action Committee last Thursday had the understanding and support of the people at large, for the decision of the Joint Action Committee to call off the three-day schools boycott when the issue had not been resolved went against the Five Resolutions of the Tien Hou Temple in Kuala Lumpur on Oct. 11.

The DAP is aware that while the people understand and support DAP’s withdrawal from the Joint Action Committee over the three-day school boycott issue, there is a strong desire that the DAP should re-join the Joint Action Committee, especially with events of the past week.

DAP is prepared to give a second try to make the Joint Action Committee a success to fulfil the aspirations of the Tien Hou Temple Resolutions, although we have been disappointed once. DAP of course reserves the right to withdraw a second time, and probably for good, if there should be another fundamental breach of principle.	
 
