+++ 
title: "Chong Eu is now involved in a cover-up of the Ooi Ean Kwong scandal"
date: "1990-09-21"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Friday, Sept. 21, 1990:_

# Chong Eu is now involved in a cover-up of the Ooi Ean Kwong scandal

I have received a letter dayed 20th September 1990 from the Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Lim Chong Eu, informing me that the Penang State Government will not convene an emergency meeting of the Penang State Assembly to deal with the Ooi Ean Kwong scandal, where the Penang Speaker violated the Penang Constitution by being involved in business.</u>

The letter by Dr. Lim reads:

“Berikutan dengan perjumpaan kita pada 1hb September, 1990 di mana Y.B membangkitkan perkara – perkara yang tertentu berkaitan dengan Speaker. Saya telah menarik perhatian Kerajaan Negeri terhadapnya.
	
“Setelah membei pertimbangan dengan teliti Pihak Kerajaan Negeri menganggapkan bahawa dokumen yang parti Y.B kemukakan kepada T.Y.T Yang DiPertua Negeri pada 8 Ogos, 1990 dan perkara-perkara yang dibangkitkan oleh Y.B semasa perbualan kita tempoh hari adalah tidak mencukupi untuk mengadakan satu kes prima facie terhadap Speaker.

“Oleh itu, Kerajaan Negeri tidak perlu mengambil sebarang tindakan yang segera untuk memanggil satu mesyuarat Dewan Undangan Negeri atas isu ini.”

When I saw Dr. Lim Chong Eu on Sept. 1 over the case of Ooi Ean Kwong, the Chief Minister said the State Legal Advisor was being asked to investigate into the matter.

Since then more facts had been revealed. For instance, that Ooi Ean Kwong had publicly lied when he denied that the Sun Lee & Co was an active account. Despite repeated challenges, Ooi Ean Kwong dare not deny that during the 27 months between December 1986 to March 1989 when he was barred by the Penang Constitution from being engaged in business, he was operating the Sun Lee & Co. account, and that hundreds of cheques were issued during this period.

Why have Dr. Lim Chong Eu and the all the State Executive Councillors ignored these facts. What other proof do they want?

In refusing to convene an emergency Penang Assembly meeting, Chong Eu is now engaged in a cover-up of the Ooi Ean Kwong scandal. What is more misusing, he is also giving full support to Ooi Ean Kwong who is misusing his power as Speaker and the Barisan Nasional majority in the Penang Assembly by unlawfully excluding Karpal Singh and I from all future Penang Assembly meetings until the next general elections.

The people of Penang have the right to ask why the Penang Speaker and the Penang Governmnet are so afraid of Karpal and myself attending Penang Assembly meetings that they could resort to such unlawful and unparliamentarily tactics.
 
