+++ 
title: "Koh Tsu Koon should cable Dr. Mahathir to urge him to praise ad congratulate Joseph Pairin for his great victory in the Sabah state election"
date: "1990-08-01"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Wednesday, 1st August 1990:_

# Koh Tsu Koon should cable Dr. Mahathir to urge him to praise ad congratulate Joseph Pairin for his great victory in the Sabah state election

The Pennag Gerakan Secretary, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon, does not know what he is talking about when he issued a statement on the Sabah state general election.</u>

Tsu Koon said that PBS’ victory in the Sabah state elections was a great victory for the Barisan Nasional and a great defeat for the DAP. If this was the case, then why is it that up to now, two weeks after the PBS victory in the Sabah state election on July 17, the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, had not praised or sent a congratulatory cable to Joseph Pairin Kitingan for his great victory for the Barisan Nasional in the Sabah state election?

Dr. Mahathir could immediately send a congratulatory cable to the Malacca Chief Minister for wining one state seat in a by-election, but he could not send a cable to Joseph Pairin for winning 36 State Assembly seats in the Sabah general election. Why?

The answer is very clear and simple. The PBS victory in the Sabah state general election is a defeat for Dr. Mahathir , for every vote for PBS was a vote against Dr. Mahathir.

Dr. Mahathir knows it and this is why he has not sent any congratulations to Joseph Pairin. If Tsu Koon does not know it, or cannot understand the meaning of the Sabah state election, it reflects poorly on him.

DAP has never disputed the defeat of the seven DAP candidates in the Sabah state election. They were defeated because the voters of Sabah wanted to unite behind the PBS to show their disapproval of Dr. Mahathir and Barisan Nasional Federal Government!

If Tsu Koon thinks that the DAP’s defeat in the Sabah state election is an indication of what is going to happen in the coming national general elections, including in Penang, he is entitled to such day-dreaming.

Gerakan has always claimed that it has a close relationship with the PBS. However, when the PBS faced pressures and unfair treatment from the Barisan Nasional Federal Government, there was no help or support from the Gerakan.

For instance, did the Gerakan speak up in Cabinet to demand the release of the four Sabahans detained under the Unternal Security Act and to challenge the police to produce a White Paper to substantiate its allegation that the four Sabahans were involved in a plot to take Sabah out of Malaysia?

Secondly, did the Gerakan raise on behalf of the PBS in the Cabinet its election manifesto demand for a separate for the return of Labuan to Sabah?

Thirdly, is the Gerakan prepared to openly declare full support to the PBS in its important election manifesto demand for the return of Labuan to Sabah?

Fourthly, is the Gerakan prepared to ask for an emergency meeting of the Barisan Nasional Supreme Council to officially commend Joseph Pairin Kitingan and the PBS for its great victory in the Sabah state election?

I do not expect Tsu Koon to answer any of these four questions. Can Tsu Koon explain why?
 
