+++ 
title: "Call on Dr. Mahathir to set up a Cabinet Committee to implement the resolutions adopted by the Federation of Malaysian Hokkien Association annual meeting"
date: "1990-09-18"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement (2) by Parliamentary opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang , in Penang on Wednesday, 18.9.1990 at 11.30 a.m._

# Call on Dr. Mahathir to set up a Cabinet Committee to implement the resolutions adopted by the Federation of Malaysian Hokkien Association annual meeting.

When he declared open the Federation of Malaysian Hokkien Association annual meeting on Monday, the Prime Minster, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, pledged that the Government would co-operate closely with the Federation as the Government takes the views of the Federation seriously.</u>

Everyone hopes that this is not more ‘diplomatic language’ meant for formal functions which means nothing and did not reflect the real thinking and attitude of the government.

If Dr. Mahathir meant what he said at the opening of the Federation of Malaysian Hokkien Association annual meeting, then I would urge the Prime Minister to announce the acceptance of the resolutions passed by the annual meeting of the Federation, and the government’s commitment to implement them.

The resolutions passed by the Federation annual meeting which concerns the government are:

•	To make public the draft of the Education Act 1990 before the next general elections;

•	The formulation of a post – 1990 national economic policy to eliminate poverty and promote national unity regardless of race and to adopt the principle of ‘merit and needs’ to promote economic growth for the well-being of all races;

•	Fair treatment to the cultures of all races so that they could be brought into the mainstream of the national culture, with all national celebrations reflecting the multi-cultural characteristic of a multi-racial society;

•	Increase the individual income tax allowances to reduce the burden of the people;

•	The transmission of Chinese news programmes by TV3

Dr. Mahathir should announce the government’s agreement with these five resolutions, and the setting up of a Cabinet Committee to implement these resolutions, as with the case of resolutions adopted either by UMNO General Assemblies or by conferences which are seriously respected by the Government, like Bumiputera Economic Conventions.

If Dr. Mahathir is not prepared to give official recognition to the resolutions passed by the Federation annual meeting and to implement them, then what he said on Monday was at most mere ‘diplomatic language’ and at worst, a ‘vote-fishing’ expedition.
 
