+++ 
title: "Dr. Lim Keng Yaik should change his portfolio from Minister for Primary Industries become Minister for Primary Lies"
date: "1990-04-28"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, 28th April 1990:_

# Dr. Lim Keng Yaik should change his portfolio from Minister for Primary Industries become Minister for Primary Lies

Gerakan President, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, told the press when he called on the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, at Sri Perdana yesterday on the first day of Hari Raya that he was arranging for a DAP official to call a Press Conference to confirm his allegations of the DAP-PAS ‘secret meeting’ in Jakarta.</u>

Dr. Lim said the DAP-PAS ‘secret meeting’ in Jakarta was planned for April 16, and that two DAP leaders given full powers to handle the Jakarta ‘secret meeting’ were DAP National Publicity Secretary and MP for Seputeh, Liew Ah Kim, and DAPSY National Chairman and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Guan Eng.

Firstly, it is most deplorable that Dr. Lim Keng Yaik should choose the first day of Hari Raya, and the residence of the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, to tell even more lies.

Keng Yaik should change his portfolio, and from Minister for Primary Industries, it would be more appropriate for him to become Minister for Primary Lies.

I am shocking at Keng Yaik’s utter lack of responsibility or sense of shame in uttering one lie after another, and when challenged to produce proof, churn out another pile of lies.

Keng Yaik said he would not turn up for the May 3 date at Chan She Shu Yuen in Kuala Lumpur at 11 a.m. or him to produce his proof, and that he would produce his proof progressively and slowly.

I challenge Keng Yaik to answer: Would he accept that on his basis, I would be perfectly entitled to accuse him of being the most corrupt Minister in Malaysia who uses his overseas trips to Ministers in unnumbered Swiss bank accounts, and when he challenges me to produce proof, for me to use his same words: ‘I have proof, which I will produce progressively and slowly, in my good sweet time?’

In the past year, the people of Malaysia have seen so many Barisan Nasional leaders exposing themselves as people utterly bereft of moral values and qualities, the best being exemplified in the Vijandran pornographic videotapes scandal.

The latest Barisan Nasional Scandal – the Keng Yaik Lies Scandal

Now, Keng Yaik is showing another dimension of such poverty and even total absence of moral values and qualities in the Barisan Nasional leadership in the latest Barisan Nasional Scandal – the Keng Yaik Lies Scandal!

Keng Yaik should know that even if he succeeds in buying one DAP member to call a Press Conference to claim that the DAP and PAS had a ‘secret meeting’ in Jakarta on April 16, this does not mean anything at all – for what we want is proof, not another person to repeat what Keng Yaik had said.

Otherwise, I can buy over a Gerakan member to call a Press Conference to publicly declare that Keng Yaik is the most corrupt Minister in Malaysia who uses his overseas trip to deposit his corruption money and the corruption money of UMNO Ministers in unnumbered Swiss bank accounts – and would Keng Yaik would accept this as proof that he is indeed the most corrupt Minister in Malaysia?

I would advise Keng Yaik to come to Chan She Shu Yuen on Thursday, 3rd May 1990 at 11 a.m. with his proof, and stop fooling and clowning around with a very serious subject.

I must warn Keng Yaik that if he fails to turn up at the Chan She Shu Yuen on May 3, he would have to face serious consequences. As the Gerakan Deputy President, Kerk Choo Ting, the Gerakan National Youth Leader, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon and the Gerakan National Publicity Bureau Chief, Dr. Kang Chin Seng, must have been the ‘brain-trust’ which through up such a despicable political tactic, they should also have the courage to accompany Keng Yaik to Chan She Shu Yuen onMay 3.

Keng Yaik has six days to weigh seriously the serious consequences he would have to face if he does not present himself at the Chan She Shu Yuen on May 3. I will be there, together with Liew Ah Kim, Lim Guan Eng and Kerk Kim Hock, to wait for Keng Yaik, Choo Ting, Tsu Koon and Chin Seng.
 
