+++ 
title: "The use of ISA against Tan Kok Wai and Lim Yoke Kee for protesting against the Cheras tolls shows that the ISA is being been used by the police to detain anyone without trial although they have no real reason for such arrest"
date: "1990-09-09"
tags:
+++

_Speech (Part II) by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the opening of the Johore State DAP Convention held in Tangkak, Johore, on Sunday, 9th September 1990 at 10 a.m._

# The use of ISA against Tan Kok Wai and Lim Yoke Kee for protesting against the Cheras tolls shows that the ISA is being been used by the police to detain anyone without trial although they have no real reason for such arrest

The use of the Internal Security Act to detain the Cheras toll protestors, and in particular the DAP MP for Sungei Besi, Clift Tan Kok Wai and Sdr. Lim Yoke Kee, Assistant to the DAP MP for Kuala Lumpur Bandar, Sdr. Lee Lam Thye, is the most scandalous</u> example of how the police could use the ISA to detain anyone they like even though they have no real cause or reason for such arrest.

This is a sharp and timely reminder to all Malaysians that the black days of Operation Lalang, where 106 Opposition leaders and government critics were detained in October 1987, could always recur so long as the Internal Security Act remains on the statute books.

It is most ridiculous that a toll protestor could be detained under the Internal Security Act while the toll operator, who gains a monopoly to squeeze the people with tolls collections, gets full police protection.

When the Internal Security Act was first introduced in Parliament in 1960 the country was told it was meant to deal with militant communists. 

Now the Internal Security Act is used against toll protestors .It would not be long before the Internal Security Act would be used against those who dare to criticize and oppose Dr.Mahathir and the Barisan Nasional Government ,or even for contesting as Opposition candidates.

If the Barisan Nasional government could misuse the Internal Security Act on the eve of the general elections, which could be held any time, this is all the more reason why the people must unite to remove such frightening powers in the hands of the government.

The use of the ISA to detain Clift Tan and Lim Yoke Kee is completely indefensible, just as its use during Operation Lalang in October 1987 was a pure abuse of power by the Barisan National government.

I call on the MCA and Gerakan Ministers to declare their stand on the use of the ISA to detain Clift Tan and Lim Yoke Kee. 
 
