+++ 
title: "Both the Gerakan national and state leadership are now stepping up the pressure on Dr. Lim Chong Eu to be a figurehead if he wants to remain as Penang Chief Minister"
date: "1990-05-09"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Tan Kit Siang, in Penang on Wednesday, May 9, 1990:_

# Both the Gerakan national and state leadership are now stepping up the pressure on Dr. Lim Chong Eu to be a figurehead if he wants to remain as Penang Chief Minister

Both the Gerakan national and state leadership are now stepping up the pressure on Dr. Lim Chong Eu to be a figurehead if he wants to remain as Penang Chief Minister.</u>

This is the only explanation for the extraordianary statement by the Gerakan President, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik in Ipoh yesterday that Chong Eu “is now making his assessment …..if the party, the Barisan National and the people want him, he will stand in the next general elections.”(Star 9/5)
Although Keng Yaik had repeatedly said that the Gerakan would respect Chong Eu’s decision if he want to re-contest, Keng Yaik’s statement about “if the party….want him” is an open and public expression that the Gerakan is not at all keen to have him continue as Penang Chief Minister, but if Chong Eu insists, the Gerakan would go along on the condition that he is reduced to a figurehead.

In case Keng Yaik’s message is not clear enough to Chong Eu, the Penang State Gerakan Vice Chiarman, Dr. Chong Sim Poey, has openly asked Dr. Lim Chong Eu to discuss and confirm with the party whether he wishes to continue to lead the State Government for the sixth term. (NST 9/5)
Gerakan party sources also let it be known that “at least three incumbent State Assemblymen, who have either failed to perform or not performed to the expectations of the party, would be dropped.”

This is another public message by the Gerakan leadership to Chong Eu that his two right-hand men, the two Gerakan Executive Councillors, Datuk Khoo Kay Por and Liang Thau Sang, would be chopped in the next general elections.

To add salt to the wound, the person chosen to publicly berate Chong Eu for keeping “his plans close to his chest” and refusing to confirm his candiadature in the coming general elections is none other than Dr. Choong Sim Poey, who spearheaded the public attacks on the appointment of Chong Eu’s son, Lim Chien Aun, as Senator, where Chong Eu was accused of nepotism and gross breach of party discipline, including refusing to pay party dues.

	If Tsu Koon replaces Keng Yaik as Gerakan President, I’ll debate with him
On May 3, 1990, where I publicly called Gerakan President, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik “an inveterate, compulsive and incorrigible liar” at the Chan’s Clansmen Association in Kuala Lumpur for his lies about the secret DAP-PAS meeting in Jakarta, and invited him to sue me.

In the past a few days, Keng Yaik has again returned to these allegations, as he believed that he could make them with impunity just as he had earlier thought he could tell lies about the so-called DAP-PAS secret meeting in Jakarta without having to face any serious consequences.

My challenge to Keng Yaik to a series of public debates on his allegation that the DAP wants to create an Islamic State by co-operating with PAS still stands, although I am sure he dare not accept my challenge. This is because Keng Yaik knows that he would be torn to pieces in such a public debate with me, not because I am a good debater, but because Keng Yaik is simply telling lies.


If it was I who is accusing Keng Yaik of wanting to create an Islamic State by co-operating with PAS, and Keng Yaik challenge me to a series of public debates, I would have immediately accept it for I must have strong reasons and arguments to back up my allegation in the first place.

But Keng Yaik operates differently. Without any basis, he could tell lies about the Jakarta secret meeting. Similarly, without any grounds and arguments, he could make allegations that the DA wants to create an Islamic State by co-operating with PAS.

It is for his reason That Keng Yaik has got the National Gerakan Youth leader, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon, to try to save him from my challenge to a series of public debates.

My challenge is to Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, the Gerakan President, and not Dr. Koh Tsu Koon.

As it is, Tsu Koon also dare not debate with the DAPSY National Chairman and DAP MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Guan Eng, and is giving all sorts of excuses. What is worse, he is secretly trying to change the topic I had set for the debate with Keng Yaik, i.e. “Keng Yaik’s allegations that that the DAP wants to create an Islamic State by co-operating with PAS.”

Three days ago, Tsu Koon claimed that he was prepared on behalf of Keng Yaik, to accept my challenge, but in the meanwhile, he had surreptitiously altered the subject to “whether the DAP has any direct or indirect co-operation with PAS”. (Kwong Wah 7/5)

Such dishonest and dishonourable conduct seems to be a characteristic of the present Gerakan leadership today!

If Tsu Koon is afraid to debate with the DAPSY National Chairman and MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Guan Eng, he is not proving Keng Yaik right that he  has the qualities to be successor to Chong Eu as Penang Chief Minister.

If Tsu Koon wants to debate with me on the subject I set on May 3, on Keng Yaik’s allegations that DAP wants to create an Islamic State by co-operating with PAS, let him first replace Keng Yaik and become Gerakan President, and I will debate with him anytime!
 
