+++ 
title: "DAP ‘adoption’ for four MCA Ministers and their MCA party positions is a difficult job as ‘bad wood is difficult to carve’"
date: "1990-04-18"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Wednesday, April 18, 1990;_

# DAP ‘adoption’ for four MCA Ministers and their MCA party positions is a difficult job as ‘bad wood is difficult to carve’

MCA Deputy President, Datuk Lee Kim Sai, said after the MCA Presidential Council meeting yesterday that the MCA’s ‘adoption’ of DAP-held parliamentary seats scheme had been very successful, had received favourable response from the people, and had the DAP “jumping”.</u>

Kim Sai said that the DAP’s ‘adoption’ of four MCA Ministers and their MCA party position is a ‘mockery’, and said: “The people understand what our adoption scheme is about but we don’t understand the DAP’s adoption scheme.”

What Kim Sai said illustrates the difficulties the DAP is facing with our adoption scheme of the four MCA Ministers and their MCA party position, for as the Chinese put it, ‘bad wood is difficult to carve’.

After the DAP had announced and explained for over a month the reason why it is necessary for the DAP to ‘adopt’ the four MCA Ministers and their MCA party positions, including MCA President, Deputy President, Vice President and Secretary-General, the MCA Deputy President could still publicly say the MCA leaders “don’t understand the DAP’s adoption scheme”.

The Malaysian people understand the DAP’s adoption scheme, but the MCA Ministers and leaders still do not understand it. No wonder for the first time in the 41-year history of the MCA, MCA Ministers and the highest MCA party positions have to be adopted.

Provisional report card on the four ‘adopted’ MCA Ministers unsatisfactory as they are slow and require remedial education’

The provisional report card on the progress of the four MCA Ministers ‘adopted’ by the DAP is ussatisfactory, as we find the MCA Ministers slow and need remedial education.

The four DAP MPs who have been charged with ‘adopting’ the four MCA Ministers and their MCA party positions, namely Gooi Hock Seng (MP for Bukit Bendera for Datuk Ling Liong Sik), Lau Dak Kee (MP for Pasir Pinji for Datuk Lee Kim Sai), Hu Sepang (MP for Rasah for Datuk Ng Cheng Kiat) Tan Kok Wai (MP for Sungei Besi for Datuk Lim Ah Lek) will try to simplify as much as possible so that the four MCA Ministers will fully under stand their Ministerial and political responsibilities, and not continue to make one blunder after another.

It is fortunate that the DAP had already ‘adopted’ the four MCA Ministers and their MCA party positions, for otherwise, the MCA members who are unitholders of the KSM-MPHB Investment Fund.

The DAP welcome the MCA Ministerial visits to the DAP constituencies, and I had in fact suggested that the MCA Ministers should immediately embark on a second series of visits. Liong Sik has publicly accepted this proposal, but no announcement has been made yet as to when this second series will be held.

The four Ministers should announce the dates and details of this second series of MCA Ministerial visits to the DAP constituencies which the MCA has ‘adopted’. I hope it will not be necessary for the DAP to expand our programme of adoption of the four MCA Ministers to include a section on to how the MCA Ministers should visit the DAP constituencies to really benefits the voters.

Finally, I must remind the MCA Ministers that they have not fully completed their first series of visits to the adopted DAP constituencies.

Lee Kim Sai has to make up for his absence in the MCA Ministerial visits to Bagan, Bukit Mertajam and Bayan Baru. The people in Bagan and Bukit Mertajam are still waiting for him to visit them as Local Government Minister to resolve the $3 per toilet sewerage charge.

Kim Sai must not let the people of Bagan and Bukit Mertajam think that he dare not visit them because of the $3 per toilet sewerage charge.

The MCA Ministers have not yet visited Bukit Bintang, Seputeh and Sungei Besi constituencies in Federal Territory. Are the MCA Ministers going to neglect the three Federal Territory constituencies they have ‘adopted’?
 
