+++ 
title: "I have absolute confidence and faith that Lam Thye’s resignation as DAP FT Chairman is not because he is considering joining another political party"
date: "1990-09-26"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Wednesday, 26th September 1990:_

# I have absolute confidence and faith that Lam Thye’s resignation as DAP FT Chairman is not because he is considering joining another political party.

I have absolute confidence and faith that Lam Thye’s resignation as DAP FT Chairman is not because he is considering joining another political party.</u>

I fully endorse his statement yesterday that he had no intention to join other political party.

During my three discussions with him so far on his resignation as DAP FT Chairman, we also discussed the possibility that there would be people who would say that Lam Thye was thinking of defection to another political party because of his resignation.

During our discussions, Lam Thye explained the reasons for his resignation as DAP FT Chairman. As he said in his statement yesterday, he was convinced that he was the target of an insidious campaign within the FT DAP involving certain FT DAP leaders.

The DAP Central Working Committee will be holdings an emergency meeting in the next few days over Lam Thye’s resignations as FT DAP Chairman.

The DAP leaders will continue with our efforts to persuade Lam Thye to change his mind about his resignation as FT DAP Chairman at this crucial political juncture.

There is no doubt that if a solution cannot be fund to this problem, it would cause very grave damage to the DAP and the Opposition Front in the next general elections at a moment when the people have a historic opportunity to hiring about great political changes to the country for the first time in 33 years.
 
