+++ 
title: "Will Keng Yaik admit that he is ‘the most corrupt Minister in Malaysia who uses his overseas trips to put his corruption money in unnumbered Swiss bank accounts’?"
date: "1990-05-21"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Monday, 21st May 1990:_

# Will Keng Yaik admit that he is ‘the most corrupt Minister in Malaysia who uses his overseas trips to put his corruption money in unnumbered Swiss bank accounts’?

After my visit to the Pantai Remis for a ceramah on May 12, the Gerakan Publicity Bureau Director and Political Secretary to the Primary industries Minister, Dr. Kang Chin Seng, challenged me to produce within 48 hours a Gerakan member to say that ‘Keng Yaik is the most corrupt Minister in Malaysia who uses his overseas trips to put his corruption money in unnumbered Swiss bank accounts’.</u>

I had given Keng Yaik 24 hours to deny that Dr. Kang had his authority to issue such a challenge to me, and to repudiate Dr. Kang. Keng Yaik had not done so. I next gave him 48 hours to respond to my two outstanding challenges to him, namely my challenge to Keng Yaik to a series of public debates on the Gerakan allegation that DAP wants to create an Islamic State by co-operating with PAS; and secondly, a gentleman’s agreement between us that my defamation suit against him should be heard in the courts by latest end of June or beginning of July.

Keng Yaik had not dared to respond to these two challenges of mine. However, since Keng Yaik has not repudiated Dr. Kang’s challenge to me to produce a Gerakan member to say that ‘Keng Yaik is the most corrupt Minister in Malaysia who uses his overseas trips to put his corruption money in unnumbered Swiss bank accounts’, I will respond to this Gerakan challenge.

If I could produce a Gerakan member to call a press conference to declare that ‘Keng Vaik is the most corrupt Minister in Malay¬sia and that he uses his overseas trips to put his corruption money in unnumbered Swiss bank accounts’, 1 want to ask Keng Yaik whether he would admit that he is the most corrupt Minister and that he had indeed used his overseas trips to put his corruption money in unnumbered Swiss hank accounts.

If Keng Yaik is not prepared to make such an admission, then let Keng Yaik give his reasons.

I wait for Keng Yaik’s reply before I make my second re¬sponse to the Gerakan challenge, made by Dr. Kang on Dr. Lim Keng Yaik’s behalf.
 
