+++ 
title: "DAP commends the Sabah Police Commissioner, Datuk Syed Othman Syed Ali, in taking adequate security measures to ensure smooth and trouble-free general elections"
date: "1990-07-13"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, on arrival in Sandakan on Friday, July 13, 1990, at 12 noon:_

# DAP commends the Sabah Police Commissioner, Datuk Syed Othman Syed Ali, in taking adequate security measures to ensure smooth and trouble-free general elections

DAP commends the Sabah Police Commissioner, Datuk Syed Othman Syed Ali, in taking adequate security measures to ensure smooth and trouble-free Sabah state general elections on July 16 and 17.</u>

The Sabah Police Commissioner said that more than 3,000 officers and men, some from Sarawak and other from Peninsular Malaysia, had been assigned specifically for election duties throughout the state. 

There is no reason why the Sabah general elections on July 16 and 17 cannot be carried out smoothly, as the Police have adequate capacity to ensure law and order in the State. 

In fact, the ‘Black Days of Sabah’ in March 1986, when riotings, arson and bombings rocked Kota Kinabalu, would never have taken place if the Police had acted responsibly and resolutely to nip them in the bud. 

The statement by Datuk Syed Othman that the rumour that Sabah Chief Minister, Datuk Joseph Pairin Kitingan, would be arrested by the Police today is baseless, is also timely as certain quarters were making use of such rumours for political capital. 

On Chau Tet On’s call to DAP to withdraw from Sabah elections

Yesterday, the PBS Deputy Chief Minister, Datuk Chau Tet On, called on the DAP to withdraw from the Sabah state general elections, on the ground that I have said that the PBS would surely continue to form the next state government after the general elections. 


I feel sorry that Chau Tet On, still cannot understand the reason for the DAP’s participation in the Sabah state general elections. It is precisely because the PBS is sure to form the next state government that it is even more important that there should be DAP Assemblyman in the Sabah State Assembly to represent the real voice of the people. 

Datuk Joseph Pairin Kitingan said in Sandakan yesterday that he was sure that the PBS would win with over two-third majority in the general elections, this means well over 32 seats. 

Assuming the PBS could win 34 seats, but four of these seats are now won by the DAP, this would not undermine the PBS Government one bit.

On the constitutional rights and status of the Sabah people, with regard to Federal-State relations, the DAP has declared that we will give 100 per cent support to PBS Government. Having DAP Assemblymen will have the added advantage that the people of Sabah will have champions of their rights in the Sabah State Assembly. 

In any event, the PBS Government can appoint another six Assemblymen under the Constitution – which will give the PBS Government a very strong position. 

Call on Pairin to state clearly whether he supports ISA or not

Pairin should state clearly whether he supports the Internal Security Act or not. 

If Pairin and the PBS supports the Internal Security Act, then they must also support the detention of the four Sabahans under the ISA, for these arrests are made under the ISA which Pairin and PBS supported. 

They cannot say that they support ISA but not the use of the ISA against the Sabahans. Once they support ISA, Pairin and PBS cannot object to the use of ISA to detain persons without trial against anyone in Malaysia, whether in Sabah or other parts of Malaysia. 

If Pairin and PBS wants the four Sabahans to be charged in court and have an open trial, then they must declare their opposition to the ISA. 

Pairin and PBS have been making unprincipled and inconsistent stand on the ISA and the arrest of the four Sabahans under the ISA. 
 
