+++ 
title: "Arrangement where Vijandran is Deputy Speaker when Dewan Rakyat is not meeting, but on leave when Dewan Rakyat is sitting is ludicrous and scandalous "
date: "1990-01-20"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Saturday, January 20, 1990:_

# Arrangement where Vijandran is Deputy Speaker when Dewan Rakyat is not meeting, but on leave when Dewan Rakyat is sitting is ludicrous and scandalous 

From the press comments by the Speaker of Parliament, Tan Sri Zahir Ismail, about the leave status of D.P. Vijandran, it is clear that we are having a ludicrous and even scandalous situation where D.P.Vijandran is Deputy Speaker when Dewan Rakyat is not meeting, but when the Dewan Rakyat is sitting, D.P.Vijandran is on leave as Deputy Speaker.</u>

	This makes a mockery of the whole Parliamentary process, and can only bring the dignity and honour of Parliament into general disrepute in the country.

	Giving Vijandran indefinite leave of absence as Deputy Speaker is bad enough and which the DAP opposes, but the arrangement where Vijandran is Deputy Speaker when the Dewan Rakyat is not meeting and ceases to be Deputy Speaker by being on leave when Dewan Rakyat is meeting is the worst possible arrangement. Parliament will become the laughing stock in Malaysia and the world.

	As Deputy Speaker, Vijandran represents Malaysia on various international conferences, for instance, the International Parliamentary Union. What an impression Vijandran will give to these international conferences about Malaysia, as everybody will know that he had to disappear when Parliament meets because of  the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal, but he could still strut around in international conferences representing the Malaysian Parliament because of his position as Deputy Speaker?

	DAP contends that the Speaker has no authority or power to grant the type of leave of absence to a Deputy Speaker that Vijandran is seeking. From the comments by the Speaker, Tan Sri Zahir Ismail, it is clear that the Speaker is giving leave of absence to Vijandran as a Member of Parliament, and because Vijandran will be absent on leave as an MP when Parliament sits, he will automatically be absent as Deputy Speaker.

	This is unsatisfactory. The Speaker may have the authority to grant leave of absence to Vijandran as MP, but he has no power to grant him leave of absence as Deputy Speaker. Vijandran’s application for leave of absence as Deputy Speaker should be submitted to Dewan Rakyat when it meets on Feb. 26 for it to approve or reject.

	I hope Tan Sri Zahir Ismail will honour the traditions of  non-partisanship as Speaker of Dewan Rakyat, and ensure that Vijandran’s application for indefinite leave of absence as Deputy Speaker is presented to Dewan Rakyat for resolution, and that the Dewan Rakyat’s powers to decide on this issue is not usurped in any manner.
 
