+++ 
title: "The calling off of the Ling-Lee fight for the post of MCA President shows that it had never been a battle between ‘justice versus self-interest’ but had always been a battle between ‘lack of justice versus self-interest’"
date: "1990-07-18"
tags:
+++

_Press Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Ipoh on Wednesday, 18th July 1990:_

# The calling off of the Ling-Lee fight for the post of MCA President shows that it had never been a battle between ‘justice versus self-interest’ but had always been a battle between ‘lack of justice versus self-interest’

The dramatic calling off of the Ling-Lee fight for the post of the MCA President shows that it had never been a battle between ‘justice versus self-interest’, but had always been a battle between ‘lack of justice versus self-interest’.</u>

It is now clear that the Ling-Lee battle had already been called off on Monday night, and the meetings of the MCA Presidential Council and the MCA Central Committee yesterday were just pure formalities to put the official stamp of approval to a deal struck on Monday night. 

This was why Datuk Lee Kim Sai behaved so awkwardly and embarrassingly at the Monday night dinner given by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) to the Prime Minister and the MCA Ministers – as if Kim Sai was sitting on pins throughout the dinner. 

It is significant that once the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, said that it would be best that there was no fight for the top post in the MCA, Kim Sai immediately backed down. 

It also reflects the lack of confidence of Kim Sai in winning the battle against Datuk Ling Liong Sik. 

What is the feeling of the supporters of Kim Sai who had stuck their necks out to call for the replacement of Liong Sik as MCA President? No wonder there is a widespread feeling of betrayal among the supporters of Kim Sai at the latest turn of events. 

But this is to be expected, when the Ling-Lee battle is not about the rights and future of the Chinese community, the Malaysian people or the national interests as a whole, but a pure power struggle!

A lot of things have been said by both the Ling and Lee factions in the past two weeks which deeply concern the public interest, and in particular the question of integrity and credibility of political leaders. 

The DAP is making a study of these issues, and will begin to raise them in a week ‘s time.

 
