+++ 
title: "The political leader who is ‘hanging the goat head but selling dog meat’ in Malaysia is none other than Ling Liong Sik"
date: "1990-08-22"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Wednesday, 22nd August  1990:_

# The political leader who is ‘hanging the goat head but selling dog meat’ in Malaysia is none other than Ling Liong Sik.

The MCA, like the UMNO and Gerakan, has been seized by a panic with the entry of 27 educationists and human rights activists into the DAP to strengthen the Opposition Front and work for a two-coalition system.</u>

The MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik’s first statement was a ridiculous one of alleging that 
the entry of the 27 educa¬tionists and human rights activists were master-minded by Semangat 46 and PAS.

His second statement, made at the pesta Penang grounds at Sungei Nibong, is equally wild, reckless 
and irrational. He accused the Opposition parties for ‘hanging the goat head but selling dog meat’ 
in their efforts to build a two-coalition system.

Let me advise Liong Sik that the one political leader who is ‘hanging the goat head but selling dog meat’ in Malaysian politics is none other than he himself.

Liong Sik should ask the MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers in the Lee Kim Sai faction who had made it very clear during the 13-day abortive Ling-Lee fight for the MCA President’s post, that Liong Sik is most guilty of ‘hanging the goat head but selling the dog meat’.

For instance, Liong Sik claims to be an honest political leader, but MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers accuse him of being ‘unclean’ and ‘dishonest’, ‘hanging goat head but selling dog meat’, as shown by the various business deals involving the MCA or he himself.

Another example is Liong Sik’s claim that he would do anything for MCA unity and a peace accord between Kim Sai and himself, but he was the one who ‘went for the kill’, putting up his own candi-dates for two MCA Vice President post violating the Ling-Lee peace accord reached at Shangrila Hotel on 16th July. This is another example of Liong Sik ‘hanging the goathead but selling the dogmeat’.

In recent times, Liong Sik has become a most shocking political leader, making the most unbelievable statements and speech¬es.

Malaysians still, squirm when they recollect his speech at Trengganu a week ago at the ceremony to hail Dr. Mahathir Mohamad as ‘Perwira Dunia Ketiga’, where he competed with Gerakan President, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik and the MIC President, Datuk Samy Vellu, to publicly sing the praises of 
Dr. Mahathir.

Liong Sik said Dr. Mahathir is such a ‘know-all’ that he is most frightened to talk to the Prime Minister. Liong Sik said: “In Cabinet, whenever I have to talk to the Prime Minister, I am very frightened, because after giving my views, the Prime Minister would tell me with great courtesy: ‘Liong Sik, what you say is not very correct’. The Prime Minister’s wide knowledge makes me afraid of talking. What I said about all these are true facts.”
No wonder, Liong Sik has now fallen to parrot Dr. Mahathir’s statements without any thought.

In his speech at the Pesta Penang grounds on Monday, Liong Sik repeated Dr. Mahathir’s argument 
that the two-coalition sy… that the Opposition parties are trying to create is not suitable … Malaysia.

As an example that not all things in the West are appropriate for Malaysia, Liong Sik said that in 
San Francisco, homosexuals are allowed to get married; and that this is not acceptable in Malaysia.

This is something which had been said by Dr. Mahathir … justify his outbursts against the West 
when it suits him. Liong … had to plagiarise Dr. Mahathir even for examples!

I want to ask Liong Sik if the two-coalition system is suitable for Malaysia, is he suggesting that a 
One-party state or dictatorial state is suitable for Malaysia, where Dr. Mahathir can be Prime Minister  
for Life and Liong Sik can be Transport Minister for life as well?
 
