+++ 
title: "DAP suggests a meeting of all Opposition parties on the Commonwealth Observer Mission to Malaysia for the next general elections"
date: "1990-06-29"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Friday, 29th June 1990:_

# DAP suggests a meeting of all Opposition parties on the Commonwealth Observer Mission to Malaysia for the next general elections
	
DAP suggests a meeting of all Opposition arties on the Commonwealth Observer Mission to Malaysia for the next general elections to ensure that the general elections will be clean, honest, fair and free.</u>

There are many details on such a Commonwealth Observer Mission to be worked out and agreed by all political parties, if such a Commonwealth Observer Mission is to be meaningful and help strengthen the democratic ethics in the Commonwealth.

The Commonwealth Observer Mission should have a mechanism not only to receive representations by all political parties and interested groups as well as individuals concerned about the integrity of the electoral process, it should be able to receive and investigate into complaints of undemocratic practices in the general elections.

One such undemocratic and unfair electoral practice would be the abuse of government machinery and funds for the advantage of the ruling political parties.

Call on Dr. Mahathir not to misuse his position as Prime Minister during his pre-election nation-wide tour of UMNO Baru ‘black areas’ as UMNO Baru President

The Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, is making a pre-election tour of the country as UMNO Baru President to compete for voter support. However, in these tours decided by the UMNO Supreme Council, he made use of his position and powers as Prime Minister to further the interests of his party.

His speeches attacking the Opposition and its leaders are given wide coverage an radio and television, while the replies and rebuttals of the Opposition leaders are blacked out completely.

This is one of the unfair and undemocratic practices which must be removed, if we want to have a fair, free, clean and honest general elections where the voters are given a full chance to decide who to support and vote after hearing the views of all the competing political parties.

Dr. Mahathir has toured Lembai Pantai (Federal Territory), Jelebu (Negri Sembilan), Besut (Trengganu), Nibong Tebal (Penang), Pasir Mas (Kelantan) – all parliamentary constituencies the Barisan Nasional are likely to lose to the Opposition in the next general elections.

I call on Dr. Mahathir to make sure that in the rest of his pre-election nation-wide tour to the other ‘black areas’ of the Barisan Nasional in Selangor, Malacca, Johore and Pahang, he should go as UMNO Baru and Barisan Nasional President, and not misuse his position as Prime Minister to campaign for votes.
 
