+++ 
title: "Call on all political leaders, particularly from the Barisan Nasional, to stop the politics of threat and fear and to be gentlemen and democrat enough to leave to the people to decide their vote on Sunday"
date: "1990-10-19"
tags:
+++

_By DAP Secretary-General, Parliamentary Candidate for Tanjung and State Assembly Candidate for Padang Kota, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Friday, 19th October 1990:_

# Call on all political leaders, particularly from the Barisan Nasional, to stop the politics of threat and fear and to be gentlemen and democrat enough to leave to the people to decide their vote on Sunday

The short nine-day 1990 general elections campaign is entering its final day.</u>

It is most unfortunate that in the last few days. Barisan Nasional leaders have been resorting to the politics of threat and fear, in an attempt to stop the wind of change blowing in the land.

I call on all political leaders, particularly from the Barisan Nasional, to stop the politics of threat and fear and to be gentlemen and democrat enough to leave to the people to decide their vote on Sunday.

There is also a more and more blatant resort to the politics of race and religion by Barisan Nasional leaders, who should be setting the good example in the general elections campaign.

Let Malaysians show the world that we can hold general elections, however intensely contested, in the democratic spirit.

I find it most unfortunate that in the past few days, there has been an intensification of the campaign of lies and falsehoods from the Barisan Nasional. It would appear that to some Barisan Nasional leaders, their campaign purpose is to tell the wildest lies or create the most vicious falsehoods.

The DAP has sent out a directive to all party candidates to instruct them to ensure that the polling is conducted peacefully and orderly without any incidents.

I hope all political parties can make a similar commitment and issue similar directives to their party candidates.
 
