+++ 
title: "Keng Yaik should explain why over TV 3 on Sunday,  he named the MP for Seputeh, Liew Ah Kim, as the DAP leader who was going to Jakarta for the secret meeting with a PAS leader while in Sin Min, he named DAP Malacca Assemblymen, Kerk Kim Hock, instead"
date: "1990-04-24"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Tuesday, 24th April 1990:_

# Keng Yaik should explain why over TV 3 on Sunday, he named the MP for Seputeh, Liew Ah Kim, as the DAP leader who was going to Jakarta for the secret meeting with a PAS leader while in Sin Min, he named DAP Malacca Assemblymen, Kerk Kim Hock, instead?

I have now been informed that over TV 3 on Sunday, the Gerakan President, Datuk Dr. Lin Keng Yaik, named the DAP MP for Seputeh and National Publicity Secretary, Sdr. Liew Ah Kim, as the DAP leader who going or had gone to Jakarta for the secret meeting with a PAS leader.</u>

However in the Sin Min report yesterday, Keng Yaik named the Malacca Assemblymen for Durian Daun and DAP National Organising Secretary, Sdr. Kerk Kim Hock, as the DAP Youth leader who was going or had gone to Jakarta for the secret meeting with a PAS Youth leader.

Keng Yaik should explain why and how he could change his mind about the identity of the DAP leader who was going or had gone to Jakarta to meet with a PAS leader, when speaking to different reporters on the same occasion? Or was Keng Yaik saying that Ah Kim and Kim Kock were involved in different secret meeting with PAS leaders? Then, who was involved in the “Jakarta meeting”, and where was the other meeting held – in Beijing or Moscow?

I have given Keng Yaik 48 hours to declare that he was going to produce proof of his serious and irresponsible allegation against the DAP and PAS at the Selangor Gerakan Assembly in Petaling Jaya on Sunday, and to name this place, date and time for him to produce the proof, so that I could be present.

Keng Yaik has now to produce further proof that it was either Liew Ah Kim or Kerk Kim Hock who was the DAP leaders involved in the secret meeting with PAS leader involved in the xecret meeting with PAS in Jakarta.

Keng Yaik has only two options: Produce Proof or Admit he is a Liar

Keng Yaik should not think that after making wild and irresponsible allegations, he could just go into hiding and ignore challenges to him to produce proof of his allegations.

In these 48 hours, Keng Yaik has only two options: Firstly, declare that he has proof, and name the place, date and time to produce the proof. I have said that I would be present to see and hear his proof.

Secondly, Keng Yaik should openly, without qualification or reservation, admit that he had lied in his speech at the Selangor Gerakan Assembly on Sunday in making completely baseless and fictitious allegations about the ‘secret meetings’ between the DAP and PAS, including the imaginary Jakarta date!

He should then be man enough to publicly tender his apology to the DAP, DAPSY, Liew Ah Kim, Kerk Kim Hock, PAS and to the people of Malaysia for openly lying about another political party just to obtain cheap publicity and dishonourable political advantage.

In other words, Keng Yaik has only the two option of producing proof to substantiate his allegations, or admit publicly that he is a liar. Going to hiding and running away from the press is no option at all!

From past example of the Gerakan attacks on the DAP, it will be safe to assume that Keng Yaik’s wild attack on the DAP on Sunday about ‘secret meetings’ with PAS, was not made on the spur of the moment, but had been a premeditated one. Keng Yaik must have discussed it beforehand with his inner core of political confidantes, comprising Gerakan Deputy President, Kerk Choo Ting, the Gerakan National Youth Leader, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon, and his political secretary, Dr. Kang Chin Seng.

If Keng Yaik and his top lieutenants like Choo Ting, Tsu Koon and Chin Seng, can concoct such a lie about the DAP and PAS having ‘secret meeting’ including a ‘jakarta date’, then they have to produce the proof.

If I do not get any word from Keng Yaik on the expiry of my 48-hour deadline, I will call a Press Conference in Penang tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. to name the place, date and time for Keng Yaik to produce his evidence for his allegations at the Selangor Gerakan Assembly against the DAP for having secret meetings with PAS.
 
