+++ 
title: "Dr. Mahathir to be queried about the Official Assignee’s approval for sale of UMNO properties in the RENONG deal"
date: "1990-06-04"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Monday, 4th June 1990:_

# Dr. Mahathir to be queried about the Official Assignee’s approval for sale of UMNO properties in the RENONG deal

In the two-week parliamentary meeting from June 11 to 22, I will ask the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, why the Official Assignee approved the sale of the UMNO properties, like Fleet Group, United Engineers Malaysia and Hatibudi, in the RENONG deal.</u>

My question on the RENONG and other queries for the June meeting of Parliament are:

1.	To ask the Prime Minister to list the properties and assets which were placed under the Official Assignee as a result of the deregistration of UMNO, and why the Official Assignees had approved transactions in these properties and assets, as in the sale of the Fleet Group and Hatibudi Nominees in the Renong deal.

2.	To ask the Minister of Home Affairs to state the number of persons who are currently detained under the Internal Security Act, giving a breakdown of the detainees being held at each detention centre; and the number of detainees who are members of political parties, with a breakdown of the detainees from each political party.

3.	To ask the Minister of Home Affairs the number of Communist Party of Malaya (CPM) leaders and members who have been allowed to return to Malaysia, as a follow-up to the Peace Agreement signed by the Malaysian Government and the CPM in Haadyai last December; and whether agreements and arrangements have ben made for the rest of the CPM leaders and members to return to Malaysia.

4.	To ask the Prime Minister whether the Government had completed its review of the four Proclamations of Emergency currently in force, and whether and when the Government proposes to repeal them; and if not, to give the reasons.

Why Dr. Mahathir has never appointed Ghaffar Baba as Acting Prime Minister?

5.	To ask the Prime Minister whether it has become his new policy not to appoint an Acting Prime Minister when he goes overseas, whether for medical check-up, overseas conference or holiday; and the reason why he has never appointed the Deputy Prime Minister as Acting Prime Minister since the 1986 general elections.

6.	To ask the Prime Minister whether the government is giving preferential treatment to United Engineers Malaysia (UEM) in the government’s privatization programme, and to give a list of all privatized projects and contracts (stating the value of the project) awarded to UEM or its subsidiary or associated companies, as well as a list of privatized projects which the UEM, its subsidiary or associated companies, are involved in whether at feasibility study, consultancy or other stages before the formal award of the privatization process.

7.	To ask the Prime Minister whether Malaysia would set an example for all Commonwealth countries by inciting observer Commonwealth missions during the next general elections as Malaysia, through the Prime Minister, is the chairman and co-ordinator of the high-level committee set up by the KL CHOGM in October 1989 to appraise the role of the Commonwealth in the 1990s with the specific task to strengthen the key ethic of democracy in member countries by sending observer missions to member countries to strengthen democratic institutions?

8.	To ask Minister of Finance why no inquiry was held into the ‘missing scrips’ scandal, and in particular to ascertain whether one chief cause is because of the hasty and ill-conceived split of the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange from the Stock Exchange of Singapore (SES), whether all the problems arising form the ‘missing scrips’ scandal has been resolved, and whether it is fairer to the small investors for the KLSE to revert to the old system of payments and receipts and contra trading.

9.	To ask the Prime Minister whether he would consider the appointment of a third Deputy Education Minister with the specific task of upgrading the standard of education of the 550 Tamil primary schools and promoting the use and study of Tamil language.

Relationship between Dr. Mahathir and Yang di Pertuan Agong

10.	To ask the Prime Minister the reasons he and the Deputy Prime Minister did not attend the Conference of  Rulers held on 28th February 1990, and why he was not receive the Yang di Pertuan Agong when the Yang di Pertuan Agong paid an official visit to the Prime Minister’s office on 19th March 1990 and the Ministry of Home Affairs on 17th April 1990.

11.	To ask the Minister of Finance why the government has not resolved the problems of Koperasi NESA and Koperasi Majujaya members to protect the hard-earned savings of the rubber tappers and low-income workers.

12.	Hulu Langat was paid his Ministerial salary other emoluments and allowances when was away in Australia and other places overseas from Oct. 27, 1987 until he resumed his Ministerial duties, giving particulars.

13.	To ask the Menteri Kemajuan Tanah dan Wilayah the reasons why Desaru International Resorts Sdn Bhd (DIRSB) was awarded the Desaru privatization contract, and to give details of the terms, conditions and principle features of the contract.

14.	To ask the Minister of Finance to list the allowances and claims which a Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Secretary are entitled to when he goes outstation or overseas either during the course of duty or on leave.

15.	To ask the Minister of Finance whether any inquiry has been held to find out why the Bank Negara directive to the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange on new margin trading dated March 16 was withheld from stock-brokers for three weeks although Bank Negara asked for the directive to be communicated to the stockbrokers ‘as soon as possible’; and whether the government would consider reconstitution of the KLSE to regain public confidence.

Dr. Mahathir to invite Commonwealth observer mission for general elections?

16.	To ask the Prime Minister whether Malaysia would set an example for all Commonwealth countries by inviting observer Commonwealth missions during the next general elections as he is the chairman and co-ordinator of the high-level committee set up by the KL CHOGM in October 1989 to appraise the role of the Commonwealth in the 1990s with the specific task to strengthen the key ethic of democracy in member countries by sending observer missions to member countries to strengthen democratic institutions?

17.	To ask the Minister of Finance who would benefit most from the closure of the Social Welfare Lotteries Board, in terms of filling the vacuum created by the termination of the Social Welfare lotteries, and whether it is true that the biggest beneficiaries will be companies connected with UMNO Baru leaders and or other Barisan Nasional component parties.

18.	To ask the Minister of Transport what steps are being taken to protect the interests of the public from being exploited by MAS because of its monopoly position, as for example its 72-hour penalty clause for any cancellation or change of flights, and whether his Ministry proposes to set up a special complaints bureau to deal with all public complaints against MAS.

19.	To ask the Minister for Energy, Telecommunications and Posts what are the main features and developments in the pivatisation of the National Electricity Board.

20.	To ask the Prime Minister the result of his meeting with the Malaysian Consultative Council of Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism and Sikhism (MCCBCHS) in April, and what are the concrete steps that have been taken by the Government arising from the meeting in connection with the views and representations of the MCCBCHS.

21.	To ask the Prime Minister to give details for the join oil exploration agreement between Malaysia and Thailand, and why Malaysia agreed to such a joint agreement when the zone to be explored belonged to Malaysia and not to Thailand.
 
