+++ 
title: "DAP warns of MCA and Gerakan plot to create a false issue to confuse and trap the voters in the next general elections"
date: "1990-05-06"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the two-day Dap National Election Strategy Seminar held in Batu Ferringhi, Penang on Sunday,6th May 1990 at a.m._

# DAP warns of MCA and Gerakan plot to create a false issue to confuse and trap the voters in the next general elections

DAP must warn the people of MCA and Gerakan plot to create a false issueto confuse and trap the voters in the next general elections.</u>

The MCA and Gerakan are doing their utmost to mislead the people into believing that the single biggest issue in the net general elections is the Islamic State objective of PAS, as if the next general elections will decide whether an Islamic State will be established in Malaysia.

The people are afraid of an Islamic State, and rightly so, for I am also afraid of an Islamic State. But this is not the question to be decided in the next general elections.

This is the false issue which the MCA and Gerakan are trying to create, so that the voters will forget about the real issues in the next general elections, as well as overlook the record of corruption, political breach of trust and misdeeds of the Barisan National Parties.

This is why Gerakan President, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, came out with the outrageous lie about the DAP-PAS secret Jakarta meeting. 

This is also why the MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, has become the minor Chinese operatic role of the woodbeater, repeating the three-word refrain: “Ai-ya-ya. Dap .Islamic State” at all MCA dinners.

Kit Siang suggests that Keng Yaik be accompanied by Kerk Choo Ting and Liong Sik be accompanied by Lee Kim Sai in the public dates with him on their allegations that DAP wants to establish an Islamic State

I have two days ago challenged Keng Yaik and Liong Sik to a series of public debates on their allegations that the DAP wants to create an Islamic state, but both Keng Yaik and Liong Sik dared not take up my challenge.

I would have thought if Keng Yaik and Liong Sik are so confident about their allegations that the DAP wants to create an Islamic state, it would be they who would challenge and press me to public debates on the Islamic state question, and it should be me who would be running away from such public debates.

Or is both Keng Yaik and Liong Sik not confident that they could personally handle the debatesand need support and assistance. In that case, I would agree that Keng Yaik be accompanied by his Deputy President , Kerk Choo Ting, and Liong Sik he accompanied by his Deputy President, datuk Lee Kim Sai.

Surely, Kerk Choo Ting and Lee Kim Sai are not so chicken-hearted as Keng Yaik and Liong Sik? I await their reply.

Are MCA and Gerakan Opposed to PAS abandoning its Islamic state objective and struggle?

MCA and Gerakan had been most dishonest in their attempt to frighten the Chinese voters about PAS and the Islamic State issue, giving the impression that such an Islamic State would be established the day after the next general elections.

However, at the same time, the UMNO leaders, such as the Education Minister, Anwar Ibrahim, are telling the Malay voters that PAS, by allegedly co-operating with DAP, is abandoning its Islamic State objective.

Surely, if what the UMNO leaders like Anwar Ibrahim say are right, that PAS, by allegedly co-operating with the DAP, is abandoning its Islamic State struggle, ths is a development which should be fully supported by the MCA and Gerakan!

Or are the MCA and Gerakan opposed PAS abandoning its Islamic State objective and struggle? It would appear that MCA and Gerakan would be strongly opposed to PAS abandoning or setting aside its. Islamic State to frighten the Chinese voters

What UMNO, MCA and Gerakan Fear most in next general elections is that somehow DAP, Semangat 46 and PAS could co-operate to present a United front against Barisan National

In actual fact, what the UMNO, MCA and Gerakan fear most in the next general elections is that somehow DAP, Semangat 46 and PAS could co-operate to present a united front against the Barisan Nasional.

MCA and Gerakan know that the Islamic State objective of PAS is not issue in the next general elections, but they want to inflate and exaggerate the Islamic State issue until it crowds out every other issue, with two objectives:

Firstly, to frighten the DAP and PAS so that they would not dare to have any form of co-operation, or even meeting, between DAP and PAS leaders.

This is the other ulterior motive of the lies of Keng Yaik about the DAP-PAS secret meeting in Jakarta, so that DAP would say that the DAP would never have any meeting, understanding or co-operation with PAS.

DAP might consider co-operation with PAS in next general elections if a vote for PAS by a Chinese or Indian is not a vote for Islamic State

If PAS is prepared to set aside its Islamic State issue, I think there would be ground for the DAP to consider some form of co-operation with it in the next general elections.

This is because the central issues in the next general elections is not Islamic State, but democracy, justice and unity.
If after the next general elections, democracy and human rights suffer further erosion, then it is not only the DAP that will perish, 
Semangat 46 and PAS will also perish. Without democracy, there will be no room for opposition political parties to function as well.

The greatest concern and challenge in the next general elections, therefore, is how to harness and mobilise all available forces and people power to save democracy and restore human rights.

PAS, however, must be realistic. PAS cannot expect any Chinese or Indian voter to vote for PAS, unless it is clear that a vote for PAS by a Chinese or Indian voter is not a vote for Islamic State, but a vote to save democracy, restore human rights, establish socio-economic justice and create genuine national unity.

The question is whether PAS leaders are prepared to be realistic, and for the next elections, set aside the Islamic State issue and put democracy, freedom, justice and unity as the central issue.
 
