+++ 
title: "Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak seems to be the first Minister to declare support for having a liar in the Malaysian Cabinet"
date: "1990-05-04"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement (2) by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Friday, 4th May 1990 at 11.30 a.m._
				
# Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak seems to be the first Minister to declare support for having a liar in the Malaysian Cabinet

UMNO Youth leader and Sports Minister, Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak, seems to be the first Minister to welcome and support having a liar in the Malaysian Cabinet.</u>

This is why in his statement yesterday, he has nothing to say about his Cabinet colleague, Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, being publicly called a “inveterate, compulsive and incorrigible liar”, and challenged to institute legal action for slander and defamation to clear his reputation.

Instead, Datuk Seri Najib challenged the DAP and PAS to take legal action against the self-proclaimed DAPSY Deputy Chairman, Yusop 
Mohamed Yusop, for alleging that there is a secret DAP-PAS Jakarta meeting.

When Keng Yaik is challenged to prove his allegation of secret DAP-PAS Jakarta meeting, he could only produce a liar. What type of a proof is this?

As far as the DAP is concerned, we have proved beyond a doubt that Yusop Mohamed Yusop is a liar, who told more than ten lies in one short press conference. Nobody in his right senses in Malaysia would believe Yusop Mohamed Yusop. If Najib believes Yusop, it merely reflects on the UMNO Youth leader. If Najib has such great trust and regard for Yusop, I suggest that Najib should invite Yusop to sit on the UMNO Youth National Executive Committee and become a UMNO Youth national leader.

The important question Is what is Najib’s stand on having a liar in the Cabinet, as Keng Yaik dare not sure me in court for slander and defamation. Is he going to raise in the next meeting of the Cabinet on Wednesday that unless Keng Yaik take legal action against me, Keng Yaik should resign from the Cabinet or he would be bringing shame, disgrace and dishonor to the Cabinet and all Ministers?

Or is Najib very comfortable, happy and at home with a liar in the Cabinet? For that matter, what is the stand of the other Ministers from UMNO, MCA, MIC, SUPP etc. what is the stand of Anwar Ibrahim, the custodian of political morality in the Cabinet? Is Anwar also very comfortable, at home and happy with having a liar in the Cabinet?
 
