+++ 
title: "Reminder to Kim Sai not to break the dinner appointment at Hotel Shangrila at 8pm tomorrow"
date: "1990-09-25"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Tuesday, 25th September 1990:_

# Reminder to Kim Sai not to break the dinner appointment at Hotel Shangrila at 8pm tomorrow

As I said yesterday, the MCA President, datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, cannot publicly ask his Deputy President, Datuk Lee Kim Sai, not to meet me for dinner at Hotel Shangrilla tomorrow.</u>

I am not surprised therefore that when asked by reporters in Ipoh yesterday, Liong Sik said that he had no objections if Kim Sai has dinner with me tomorrow. This is an occasion where even if Liong Sik is very angry and opposed to the dinner date, he could not openly oppose it.

I want to rebut Liong Sik’s allegation that I am interfering in MCA affairs in inviting Kim Sai to dinner tomorrow.

My dinner invitation did not come out of the blue, but is the result of the public demand by Kim Sai for proof of my statement that ‘Of all the MCA Presidents, Liong Sik is the best for the DAP’.

If Kim Sai had not challenged me to produce proof to substantiate my statement, the there would have been no dinner invitation from me.

I have no intention of interesting or getting bogged down with the MCA’s internal problems, but if Kim Sai wants to share some of his MCA problems with me, I am prepared to lend him an attentive ear.

Now that Liong Sik has publicly said that he has no objections to his Deputy having dinner with me, I want to remind Kim Sai not to break his dinner appointment date at Shangrilla Hotel tomorrow at 8.00 p. m.

Anwar Ibrahim should publicly apologise for his emotional, hysterical and totally unwarranted attack on Dong Jiao Zhong

The MCA Ministers keeping being a disappointment after disappointment to the Malaysian people, and in particular the five million Malaysian Chinese they claim to represent.

They have kept repeat demonstrating that it does not really matter whether there are MCA Ministers or not in the Cabinet, for they are excluded from the main decision-making process in the Cabinet and Government altogether.

The scandal of the conditional recognition of the nine Tunku Abdul Rahman College certificates is the best recent example another being the Cheras toll issue.

What is the stand of the MCA Ministers, and for that matter the Gerakan Minister for Primary Industries, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, on the hysterical and emotional attack of the Education Minister, Anwar Ibrahim, on the Dong Jiao Zhong on the question of their participation in the Education Act Consultative Council?
Anwar’s hysterical and emotional attack on Dong Jiao Zhong, telecast during television news on Sunday night, showed a person who had lost control of himself, and is most shocking and disturbing!

What is the stand of the MCA and Gerakan Ministers on Anwar Ibrahim’s attack on the letter sent by Dong Jiao Zhong as ‘biadap’? If not, are they going to raise this issue at tomorrow’s Cabinet meeting to ask Anwar Ibrahim to publicly anologise for such hysterical, emotional and totally unjustifiable attack on the Chinese educationists and Dong Jiao Zhong?
 
