+++ 
title: "Why are Ean Kwong and Chong Eu so silent about the fact that hundreds of cheques had been operated by Sun Lee & Co which Ean Kwong claimed was not an active account?"
date: "1990-09-19"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Wednesday, Sept.19, 1990:_

# Why are Ean Kwong and Chong Eu so silent about the fact that hundreds of cheques had been operated by Sun Lee & Co which Ean Kwong claimed was not an active account?

A week had passed since I challenged the Penang Speaker, Datuk Ooi Ean Kwong, to deny that he had operated hundreds of cheques for the Sun Lee & Co during the 27 months he was barred from business from December 1986 to March 1989.</u>

However, there has been complete silence from a normally voluble Ooi Ean Kwong. There is also complete silence from the Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Lim Chong Eu, who had asked me on Sept.1 for further proof that the Sun Lee & Co. account was an active account during the operative period in question.

Datuk Oooi Ean Kwong should know that his continued silence would be proof that he had lied when he had earlier denied that the Sun Lee & Co account was a very active account.

I am giving Oooi Ean Kwong a final chance to respond to my challenge to deny that he had operated hundreds of cheques for Sun Lee & Co. during the period he was barred from all business involvement.

Oooi Ean Kwong should know that both on the law and the facts, he had contravened Penang Constitution Section 20(5) which bars a Penang Speaker from any involvement in business.

DAP calls for resignation of Ooi Ean Kwong as Speaker and holding of emergency Assembly meeting to validate all unlawful enactments and assembly business transacted since 1986

He should have the personal courage and grace to admit that he had illegally occupied the office of Speaker for the past four years, and that as a result of his violation of the Constitution, all the laws and decisions made by the Penang Assembly from 1986 onwards with him in the Chair are unconstitutional, null and void. 

Instead of calling on illegal meeting of the Privileges Committee last Monday to illegally exclude Karpal Sigh and myself from the Penang Assembly, Ean Kwong should submits his resignation as Penang Assembly Speaker immediately to allow the Penang Assembly to meet in emergency meeting to appoint anew Speaker and to pass validation enactments and motions to ensure that all the enactments, budgetary motions and other assembly business transacted from 1986 till June 1990 are given lawful basis.

I urge the Chief Minister, Dr.Lim Chong Eu, to give serious attention to this issue, for it is most ironical that after 21 years as Penang Chief Minister, it is now found that he had allowed the Penang Assembly to unconstitutionally and illegally pass enactments and transact business for the past four years.
 
