+++ 
title: "Kit Siang writes to Dr. Mahathir on Commonwealth Observer Mission to Malaysia for next general elections"
date: "1990-06-27"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Kota Bahru on Wednesday, 27th June 1990 at 2 p.m._

# Kit Siang writes to Dr. Mahathir on Commonwealth Observer Mission to Malaysia for next general elections

I have written to the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, on Monday suggesting the formation of an All-Party Committee for Commonwealth Observer for the next general elections, and that this All-Party Committee be fully responsible for all details and decisions about the invitation, appointment, membership, terms of reference, programme of activities and all other details connected with the Mission.</u>

My letter to the Prime Minister reads:

“YAB Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, 
Prime Minister, 
Malaysia.

YAB Datuk Seri,

Commonwealth Observer Mission to Malaysia for next general elections

I write in connection with your announcement in the Dewan Rakyat last Thursday of the government’s decision to invite a Commonwealth Observer Mission to Malaysia for the next general elections subject to the agreement of the Opposition.

As you know, I had on behalf of the DAP expressed support for a Commonwealth Observer Mission.

However, there are details that should be worked out and agreed upon by political parties in Malaysia, both ruling and opposition, so that full agreement could be reached on the composition, programme, activities and other details pertaining to the mission.

The invitation for the Commonwealth Observer Mission to Malaysia for the next general elections should be made in the name of all political parties, and for this reason, the DAP is suggesting the formation of an All-Party Committee for a  Commonwealth Observer Mission to work out details and directly liaise with the Commonwealth Secretary-General on this matter.

The composition and the process of finalizing the members of the Commonwealth Observer Mission have to be approached with care so that no problem would ever arise as to the acceptability, credibility and legitimacy of the Mission members.

There are countries in the Commonwealth which have no democratic elections to talk about, being run by military juntas, one-party rule or even no-party regimes. Members from such countries are clearly unacceptable and will not lend credibility and legitimacy to such a Commonwealth Observer Mission.

I therefore ask for a meeting with YAB to discuss the details in the invitation for a Commonwealth Observer Mission to Malaysia for the next general elections.
 
