+++ 
title: "Chong Eu is trying to revive the ‘Islamic State’ attack on the DAP after it had been discredited by Keng Yaik’s clumsy lie about the DAP-PAS secret meeting in Jakarta"
date: "1990-08-07"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang in Penang on Tuesday, August 7, 1990._

# Chong Eu is trying to revive the ‘Islamic State’ attack on the DAP after it had been discredited by Keng Yaik’s clumsy lie about the DAP-PAS secret meeting in Jakarta

Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Lim Chong Eu, is trying- to revive the ‘Islamic State’ attack on the DAP after it had been discredited by the clumsy lie of the Gerakan President, Datuk Lim Keng Yaik, about the DAP-PAS secret  meeting in Jakarta.</u>

This is why Chong Eu used the the occasion of the opening of the National Lim Association annual general meeting at the Taiping Lim Kongsi building on Sunday to make an indirect attack on the DAP and myself, suggesting that the DAP has agreed to the establishment of an Islamic State by co-operating with PAS.

This is of course a double lie, for firstly, the DAP has no relationship, understanding or co-operation with PAS, and secondly, the only party in Malaysia which can be depended upon to take a firm and uncompromising stand to oppose an Islamic State is none other than the DAP.

It is an open secret that Chong Eu has the greatest con¬tempt for the Gerakan President, Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, as the Penang Chief Minister does not think Keng Yaik has the qualities necessary for a national political leader. His low opinion for Keng Yaik was again justified by the Gerakan President’s fiasco over his lie about the DAP-PAS secret meeting in Jakarta.

Keng Yaik had shown himself as the most inept and shallow political leader in the secret Jakarta DAP-PAS talks fiasco.

The top Gerakan leaders had decided that the ‘Islamic State’ attack will be their main weapon against the DAP, for Gerakan hopes to drive away the traditional supporters and voters for the DAP by spreading the scare and fear among them that to vote for the DAP in the next elections is to vote for an Islamic State.

However, Keng Yaik had bungled the whole Gerakan strategy with his foolish lie about the DAP-PAS secret talks in Jakarta. Keng Yaik could not produce one iota of evidence or get anyone to believe his lie about the Jakarta DAP-PAS secret talks, and the Gerakan lead¬ers themselves are so embarrassed by Keng Yaik’s folly that none of them dare to mention the Jakarta secret talks.

What Chong Eu is infuriated is that as a result of Keng Yaik’s foolish and blatant lie about, the Jakarta DAP-PAS secret talks, Keng Yaik had discredited Gerakan’s main weapon against the DAP in the coming general  elections, namely the ‘Islamic State’ issue.

Chong Eu should publicly apologise to the National Lims Association for abusing the opening of the annual general meeting to make a clear though veiled attack on DAP and myself.

Chong Eu is trying to repair the damage created by Keng Yaik - to slowly re-introduce the subject and influence public opinion with the idea that there are Chinese who are trying to help PAS estab-lish an Islamic State.

This was what Chong Eu tried to do when he was invited to declare open the National Lim Association annual general meeting in Taiping on Sunday. It was a clear though veiled attack on the DAP and
myself in particular.

This is doubly unfortunate firstly because he had abused the hospitality of the National Lim Association to give an opening speech; secondly, for telling a lie at the National Lim Association by suggesting that the DAP wants to help PAS to establish an Islamic State.

Chong Eu has no excuse or justification whatsoever in using the National Lims Association annual general meeting as a forum to try to salvage and revive the Gerakan’s ‘Islamic State’ attack on the DAP after it had been discredited by Keng Yaik.

Chong Eu should, have the decency to publicly apologise to the National Lim Association and all Lims in Malaysia, for abusing the hospitality of the Lims to open the National  Lim Association annual general  meeting as a platform for his attack on the DAP and myself.
 
