+++ 
title: "Lim Cheng Aun should decline to take up the appointment as Senator but should instead stand for next general elections"
date: "1990-03-17"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Saturday, 17th March 1990:_

# Lim Cheng Aun should decline to take up the appointment as Senator but should instead stand for next general elections

I have no views on the appointment of Lim Cheng Aun as Senator by the Gerakan Penang State Government in the recent meeting of the Penang State Assembly.</u>

This appointment has created great waves inside and outside the Gerakan, to the extent that the Penang Gerakan State Chairman, Tan Gim Hwa, is reported to have decided to want to register his strong protest by refusing to re-contest for the post Penang Gerakan State Chairman. 

All this may be most unfair to the Penang Chief Minister, Dr.Lim Chong Eu.

The best way to resolve the controversy will be for Lim Cheng Aun to decline to take up the appointment as Senator, but instead stand for the next general elections, whether in Parliamentary or State seat.

This can be done by Lim Cheng Aun staying away from the Senate when it starts its eight-day meeting on Monday. Lim Cheng Aun can decline to take his seat in Senate, and inform the Senate President by letter that he is not accepting the Senatorial appointment.

On the other hand, Gerakan President, Dr.Lim Keng Yaik should publicly announce that Lim Cheng Aun would be fielded as a Gerakan candidate in the next general elections, whether Parliament or State.

The should end the controversy over the appointment of Lim Cheng Aun as Gerakan Senator and remove the embarrassing situation faced by Dr.Lim Chong Eu.

DAP will support the convening of an emergency meeting of the Penang State Assembly to appoint a new Senator.
 
