+++ 
title: "The 13-day abortive Ling-Lee power struggle have shown the true colours of the MCA leaders as a group of self-seeking and unprincipled politicians who have no concern about the rights of the people"
date: "1990-07-26"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the DAP ceramah in Kuala Trengganu at Hokkian Association Hall, Kuala Trengganu on Thursday, July 26, 1990 at 8 p.m._

# The 13-day abortive Ling-Lee power struggle have shown the true colours of the MCA leaders as a group of self-seeking and unprincipled politicians who have no concern about the rights of the people

The 13-day abortive Ling-Lee power struggle for the post of MCA President this month has shown the true colours of the MCA leaders as a group of self-seeking and unprincipled politicians who have no concern about the rights of the people.</u>

It has allowed the Malaysian people, and in particular the Chinese community, an opportunity to see clearly the character and mentality of the top MCA leaders who are representing the Malaysian Chinese in the Government as Ministers, Deputy Ministers, Parliamentary Secretaries and Members of Parliament.

In the 13-day MCA power struggle, the Lee Kim Sai faction accused the MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, as being autocratic and practising one man decides, the group is responsible’ policy. 

This is of course an internal MCA matter regarding how the MCA party is run, and strictly speaking, is a matter for the MCA to sort out.

But what is of great interest and concern to all Malaysians, and in particular the Chinese community, is the rare insight into the character and mentality of the top MCA leaders who also occupy important positions in the Government, provided by the 13-day MCA power-struggle. 

And the Malaysian Chinese cannot feel comfortable or happy at the rare insight they have been given into the character and mentality of the top MCA leaders in Government. 

In the 13-day Ling-Lee power struggle, top MCA leaders who are also Ministers or Deputy Ministers claim that they were shut out of important decision-making in the MCA leadership, and even up to now, did not know the full details and reasons for the various decisions on the Kamunting deals over Multi-Purpose Holdings Bhd., the 19.7 per cent stake of MPHB held by KSM-MPHB Investment Fund, the appointment of David Yeoh as MCA Senator. 

I do not want to get involved in this dispute between the Ling and Lee factions as to who is right or wrong in these various issues. 

But what should concern all Malaysians, and in particular the Malaysian Chinese whom the MCA claims to represent, it that if inside the MCA itself, the MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers could be forced to be party to decisions they knew nothing about, how could the people expect these MCA Ministers and Deputy Speakers to stand up to the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, in Cabinet and Government for what is right and in the interests of the people, particularly for the Chinese community?

If these MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers dare not stand up and speak up for what is right in the MCA Central Committee and the Presidential Council, when all they have to face is Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, how could they be expected to have the courage to stand up and speak up for what is right in the Cabinet or Government when they have to face Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed himself, not to mention the other UMNO leaders like Anwar Ibrahim and Najib Tun Razak?

The Ling-Lee settlement is the most shameful and dishonourable political accord in Malaysian history
Can the people entrust their rights and that of future generations, on issues like the Education Act 1990 or post-1990 national economic policies, to these political leaders who have shown that they have no backbone even inside the MCA, let alone in the Barisan Nasional Government?

The Ling-Lee settlement to end their contest for the post of MCA President is the most shameful and dishonourable political accord in Malaysian history.

What is the accord about? When one side takes up the banner of justice against the other side accusing them of fighting for self-interest, how can there be accord and compromise?

If the ‘cause of justice’ could surrender so easily in the MCA, how can MCA be expected to fly the cause of ‘justice’ in the Barisan Nasional Cabinet and Government?

How can there be accord against improper, dishonest, unethical, illegal and even corrupt practices which the Lee faction accused Liong Sik as being guilty of?

The more Liong Sik explains, even more doubts are raised about his honesty and integrity

Even up to now, Liong Sik has not been able to give satisfactory answers to the many issues and allegations raised by the Lee factions accusing him of improper, dishonest, unethical, illegal and even corrupt practices. The more Liong Sik seeks to explain the various deals, whether Kamunting, Multi-Purpose Holdings Bhd., KSM, Bolton Finance, the Pyemas brokerage firm, even bigger questions are raised reinforcing the earlier allegations of gross impropriety rather than dismissing and clearing the doubts. 

The 13-day Ling-Lee battle saw MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers accusing each other as liars. When MCA leaders can openly lie against each other, it is no wonder that they have no qualms to go round the country to tell lies about the DAP – such as the DAP wants to co-operate with PAS to establish an Islamic State. 

The 13-day Ling-Lee battle has exposed the fact that in the finally, analysis, there is no great difference between Liong Sik and Kim Sai, cowards. The people now know that during Operation Lalang in October 1987, not only Lee Sai ran away to Australia for refuge, even Ling Liong Sik also ran away to America. 

How can the people entrust their future with such a political party with such political leaders?
 
