+++ 
title: "DAP Central Executive Committee endorses MTUC minimum labour programme"
date: "1990-07-19"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the Malacca DAP ‘Towards Tanjung 2’ dinner held at Lim Cheng Puan Restaurant, Malacca on Thursday, 19th July 1990 at 9 p.m._

# DAP Central Executive Committee endorses MTUC minimum labour programme

The DAP Central Executive Committee last month considered the MTUC’s minimum labour programme, and has endorsed its 19-point programme.</u>

The MTUC 19-point minimum labour programme among other things calls for a progressive social security policy, through the merger of the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) and the Social Security Organisation (SOCSO) and the extension of social benefits; a house-owning scheme; a basic living wage; a 40-hour working week; protection of the interests of the consumers as in the establishment of an independent Price Justification Tribunal and progressive labour laws.

The MTUC minimum programme also dealt with privatization, foreign investment, the right to work, education, health, income distribution, elimination of poverty, fundamental rights, parliamentary democracy, an independent judiciary, morality and accountability, and the building a truly sustainable multi-ethnic harmony. 

It is unfortunate that union-bashing, and in particular MTUC-bashing, has become the favourite pastime of Barisan Nasional leaders, especially the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, and his deputy, Ghafar Baba, during their series of pre-election tours of the country. 

Intensification of pre-election tours by Dr. Mahathir shows double lack in Barisan Nasional – lack of unity and lack of confidence for the next general elections

The intensification of the pre-election tours by Dr. Mahathir shows a double lack in the Barisan Nasional; firstly, lack of unity in the Barisan Nasional component parties, whether MIC, Gerakan, MCA or UMNO Baru, or the Sabah and Sarawak Barisan Nasional component parties. 

Secondly, it demonstrates Dr. Mahathir’s lack of confidence for the next general elections, as he knows fully well that the next general elections can bring great political changes in Malaysia – to the extent of his losing two-thirds majority if there is a 12 per cent swing against the Barisan Nasional, or even a change of government if there is a 20 per cent swing against the Barisan Nasional.




 
