+++ 
title: "Why did Najib only name Abdullah Ang and omitted important UMNO leader involved in the $70 million Masjid Tanah ammunition depot scandal"
date: "1991-06-29"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the office opening of the DAP 25th anniversary cultural show organize by the Federal Territory State DAP at the Selangor Chief Assembly Hall on Saturday, 19th June 1991 at 7.30 pm_

# Why did Najib only name Abdullah Ang and omitted important UMNO leader involved in the $70 million Masjid Tanah ammunition depot scandal

The Defence Minister, Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak, has name Abdullah Ang of the prison ‘water-bed’ fame as being involved in $70 million Masjid Tanah ammunition depot scandal.</u>

Najib should explain why he only named Abdullah Ang omitted to name an important UMNO leader involved in the $70 million Masjid Tanah ammunition depot scandal.

Najib said that the Government should blacklist those involved in the ammunition depot scandal. Would the important leader involved in the scandal be ‘blacklisted’ and be requ to make good for the losses and damages suffered by the Government the $70 million ammunition depot scandal.

As UMNO Youth leader who claims to take an uncomprimi stand against all forms of corrpution, malpractices and breach trust, will Najib demand for the resignation of this important political leader from all public offices for his involvement in the $70 million ammunition depot scandal.

We feel however that we should give Najib the opportunity to name the important UMNO leader involved in the scandal first.

Datuk Najib had also announced the investigation into ammunition depot scandal headed by the Mindef Secretary-General, Datuk Nasruddin Bahari and said that the Ministry of Defence would action against any negligence established in the investigations.

Malaysians are seeing another replay of Government Minister disclaiming Ministerial responsibility and public accountability. What Datuk Najib is doing now was exactly what the Malacca Chief Minister, Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik, had done in the past few months with regard to the Malacca water shortage scandal.

 In his statements in the past two days, Najib had strenuous attempts to absolve himself from responsibility for Masjid Tanah ammunition depot scandal.

Najib stressed that the depot contract was awarded in 19 “long before I look over as Defence Minister last year”.

I concede that the ammunition depot contract was award well before he was appointed Defence Minister- but would he con that whoever was Defence Minister during the award of the ammunition depot conract must therefore bear responsibility for the scandal?

Furthermore, I call on Datuk Najib to confirm or deny the Defence Minister in 1982 at the time of the award of the ammunition depot contract was Dr.Mahathir Mohamed himself.

Najib had been negligent and failed to discharge Ministerial responsibility in the ammunition depot scandal

However, Najib cannot escape full responsibility for ammunition depot scandal. He should explain why he did not order investigation into the ammunition depot scandal earlier.

If the Public Accounts Committee had not exposed the sh ing fact that 75 of the 155 stores at the depot were defective examining have 1988 Auditor-General’s Report, the Defence Minister would have conveniently swept the ammunition depot scandal under carpet.

Najib received the 1988 Auditor-General’s Report on ammunition depot scandal when he became Defence Minister last year, but he failed to order an investigation into it. For this. He been negligent and failed to discharge Ministerial responsibilities.

2.DAP calls on the Cabinet to reconsider and to withdraw the Land Acquisition Amendment Bill in view widespread nation-wide objections

The Cabinet Ministers should be aware of the widespread nation-wide objections to the Land Acquisition Amendment Bill. Which will arm the government with powers unchallengeable by the court acquire land not for a public purpose.

In the past, the Government could only acquire land for public purpose, as to build schools, hospitals or highways. However, under the Acquisition Amendment Bill which is before the D Rakyat, the government can now acquire land “which is needed by person or corporation for  any purpose which is beneficial to economic development of Malaysia or to public or any class of public.”

This means tat the Government can now compulsorily acquire land and properties not for a public purpose, but for the private of individuals-as for instance, in the acquisition of land to them to private developers to build houses, office blocks or even build amusement arcades!

If this Land Acquisition Amendment Bill is passed into then the Constitutional right to property enjoyed by Malaysians u Article 13 of the Federal Constitution would have been taken away. Private land would be safe once such a Bill with far-reaching consequences becomes law.

Furthermore, this new law will be the source of g corruption and abuses of power.

DAP calls on the Cabinet Ministers to reconsider and withdraw the Land Acquisition Amendment Bill in view of the nation-wide objections.

DAP proposes a joint memorandum by MPs from all parties urging the Prime Minister to withdraw the Land Acquisition Amendment Bill

The DAP proposes that a joint memorandum ne signed and by all MPs, regardless of party, who are opposed to the Bill, urging the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr.Mahathir Mohamed, to withdraw the Land Acquisition Amendment Bill.

I will get in touch with MPs from all political parties the Opposition as well as Barisan Nasional component parties, urging them to join in this memorandum.

I have no doubt that the Land Acquisition Amendment Bill could be withdrawn if all the MCA, Gerakan and MIS MPs for instance are prepared to take firm stand on this issue.

3.DAP calls for the early release of the Sixth Malaysia Plan 

The Dewan Rakyat has been adjourned for eleven days will resume sitting on July 10, when the Prime Minister will pre the Sixth Malaysia Plan and kick off the debate on it.

I call on the Government to release early the Sixth Malaysia Plan to give all MPs and the public ample time to study give their feedback, and not wait until the last minute, as happ with the Second Outline Perspective Plan and the National Development Policy.

The Prime Minister should show greater respect to the in tution of Parliament and not regard MPs as mere rubber-stamps to formal approval to policies decided by the Cabinet.
 
