+++ 
title: "Rahim Tamby Cik’s thank-you note to the American hitech bomoh is an insult to Malaysia for it is an endorsement of Constable’s condemnation of Malaysia as a ‘backward country’"
date: "1991-10-07"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP FOR Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Monday, October 7, 1991:_

# Rahim Tamby Cik’s thank-you note to the American hitech bomoh is an insult to Malaysia for it is an endorsement of Constable’s condemnation of Malaysia as a ‘backward country’

The Malacca Chief Minister, Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik, seems to be very proud of the water shortage crisis in Malacca created by the gross negligence and incompetence of both the Malacca Water Board and the Malacca State Exco, both of which are headed by him.</u>

Rahim told a Malacca State UMNO convention yesterday that he considered the Malacca water crisis as challenge for the State Government which was resilient in facing the hardships.

The Malacca State Government and the Malacca State Leaders, headed by Tan Sri Rahim, experience no hardship whatsoever from the biggest man-made water crisis in the country, for it is the ordinary people of all races in Malacca who had to suffer – with some dying as a result of the water crisis! The Chief Minister and the Malacca State leaders do not have to carry water for their daily needs!

The Malacca State Government’s ‘resilience’ does not stem from its ability to resolve the water crisis, or from its commitment to the basic democratic principle of accountability, but from its refusal to accept responsibility and accountability for its gross incompetence and negligence in creating the water crisis.

A few days ago, Rahim sent a thank-you note to the American ‘hi-tech’ bomoh which he engaged to create rain through Chixxx Rahim said the ‘thank-you’ note to the American ‘hi-tech bomoh’ company, TJC/Atmos Engineering, is the Malacca State government’s expression of gratitude to the company for its efforts.

Rahim’s ‘thank-you’ note to the American hi-tech bomoh is a great insult to the people of Malacca and Malaysia, especially after the director and chief operating officer of TJC/Atmos Engineering, Trevor James Constable, had insulted Malaysians by calling Malaysia a ‘backward country’ in his letter published by the New Straits Times on 21st September 1991. In this letter, Constable also threatened to spread in ‘influential circles in America’ that Malaysia is a ‘backward country’.

Rahim’s ‘thank-you’ letter to TJC/Atmos Engineering is nothing short of endorsing T.J. Constable’s condemnation of Malaysia as a ‘backward country’.

This is why I say Rahim’s ‘thank-you’ letter to the American hi-tech bomoh is most insulting to the people of Malacca and Malaysia.

Rahim has made Malacca and Malaysia a laughing-stock in the world for three reasons: firstly, for creating a man-made water shortage crisis unheard-of in Malaysia or elsewhere; secondly for his unbelievable gullibility in falling for the guiles of the American hi-tech bomoh in believing his story of making rain through Chi; and thirdly, for his thank-you letter to the American hi-tech bomoh which will be seen as endorsing Constable’s condemnation of Malaysia as a ‘backward country’.

Rahim should publicly apologise to the people of Malacca and Malaysia for making Malacca and Malaysia a laughing stock of the world thrice over.
 
