+++ 
title: "Call on Dr. Mahathir to name the non-political groups whom he accuse of being ‘paid agents of the western countries to destabilize Malaysia’"
date: "1991-05-27"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Monday, May 27, 1991:_

# Call on Dr. Mahathir to name the non-political groups whom he accuse of being ‘paid agents of the western countries to destabilize Malaysia’.

The Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, made a very serious allegation after launching the Negeri Sembilan kampungku programme yesterday.</u>

He alleged that there were certain people in the country who are agents financed by western countries to disrupt Malaysia’s growth and to destabilize the country. He said these people are pseudo-politicians who have no guts to become full-time politicians’.

These are very serious allegations, and Dr. Mahathir must name these non-political groups whom he accuse of being ‘paid agents of the western countries to destabilize Malaysia’.

Dr. Mahathir said that Malaysia did not need Western-styled democracy which emphasized individual freedom. Is the Prime Minister suggesting that Malaysia wanita democracy ala Mahathir where he could make all sorts or serious allegations without having to substantiate them, and later may be, use it even as the basis for Internal Security Act detentions without trial?
Malaysian are entitled to know whether Dr. Mahathir is serious in making these allegations for two reasons:

Firstly, groups which are being attacked with grave allegations, which could end up with Internal Security Act detentions, are entitled to defend themselves and rebut these charges!

Secondly, from past experience, such a serious allegation of ‘foreign interference and conspiracy to destabilize Malaysia’ will herald a campaign of political paranoia and hatred spearheaded by UMNO Youth allegedly to protect the integrity and sovereignty of Malaysia against imaginary foes both inside and outside the country. This is not healthy for Malaysia, whether in politics, economic development, nation building or Malaysia’s international image.

The Barisan Nasional Government had recently been torn by bitter internal divisions and disputes because of very communal and chauvinistic sentiments, like over the MCA’s Malaysian Chinese Cultural City proposal. Other issues of contention include the second Outline Perspective Plan 1991-2000. Is Dr. Mahathir trying to create a new and fictitious issue about ‘paid agents financed by Western powers to destabilize Malaysia’ to distract public attention from these grave divisions and weaknesses in the Barisan Nasional?
 
