+++ 
title: "Kit Siang asks for urgent meeting with Dr.Mahathir to ensure all MPs get ample time to study OPP before parliamentary debate"
date: "1991-06-07"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Friday, June 7 1991:_

# Kit Siang asks for urgent meeting with Dr.Mahathir to ensure all MPs get ample time to study OPP before parliamentary debate

I have asked for urgent meeting with the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr.Mahathir Mohamed, to ensure that all MPs get ample time to study Outline Perspective Plan 1991-2000 before parliamentary debate.</u>

The Dewan Rakyat would meet in 10 days’ time, and MPs have not received copies of the Outline Perspective Plan or the report of the National Economic Consultative Council (NECC).

It is only fair that MPs should be given ample time to study both the OPP and the NECC Report and to seek public feedbacks on these two reports before a Parliamentary debate takes place.

MPs should be given at least one months’ time to study the OPP and the NECC Report as well as public feedbacks. As the coming meeting of Dewan Rakyat is broken into two pates, meeting for nine days from June 17 to June 26 and another ten days from July 10 to 23, MPs can be given this one month period if debate on the OPP is scheduled for the July part the Dewan Rakyat meeting.

I am shocked to understand that the Government proposes to start with the debate on the motion on the OPP on the very first day of the Dewan Rakyat on June 17, with the Prime Minister presenting the motion.

This will be most unfair in not giving all MPs adequate time to study the OPP and the NECC Report. 

The nine days of Dewan Rakyat meeting in June can deal with the various Government Bills and other parliamentary business.
 
