+++ 
title: "Kit Siang invites Liong Sik and the other three MCA Ministers as well as Keng Yaik to a ‘public beer-drinking’ trip to Kelantan with the DAP footing the expenses if this is banned by the Kelantan State Government"
date: "1992-02-01"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Friday, 31st January 1992:_

# Kit Siang invites Liong Sik and the other three MCA Ministers as well as Keng Yaik to a ‘public beer-drinking’ trip to Kelantan with the DAP footing the expenses if this is banned by the Kelantan State Government

MCA Ministers and leaders are still continuing with their lies in their propaganda campaign that the Chinese in Kelantan are ‘oppressed’ and ‘persecuted’ by the Islamisation measures of the Kelantan State Government which infringed the rights and interests of non-Muslims.</u>

One of the examples which the MCA Secretary-General and Minister for local Government and Housing, Dr. Ting Chew Peh, highlighted in the press yesterday (e.g. Star) is ‘the ban on drinking of beer in public’ by the PAS-led Kelantan State Government.

I invite the MCA president, Datuk Seri Dr. Lim Liong Sik and other three MCA Ministers to Kelantan to drink beer publicly. As Gerakan has also jumped onto the bandwagon of the MCA propaganda campaign about the ‘oppression’ and ‘persecution’ of the Chinese in Kelantan, I also invite Gerakan President, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, as well.

The DAP will pay for all the transport, hotel and beer expenses of the four MCA Ministers and one Gerakan Minister for a ‘public beer drinking’ session in Kelantan.

Once the four MCA and one Gerakan Ministers agree to put their allegation that the Chinese in Kelantan are banned from drinking beer publicly to the test by making the ‘public beer-drinking’ trip to Kelantan on the hospitality of the DAP, then the DAP Headquarters administration will make all the travel, accommodation and ‘public beer-drinking’ arrangements, and we will send the air-tickets to the five Ministers.

However, if on the visit to Kelantan, they found that their allegation that the Chinese are banned from drinking beer publicly are unfounded and baseless, I do not ask for any public apology from them, but to foot the entire expenses of the ‘public beer-drinking’ trip to Kelantan.
 
