+++ 
title: "Tan Ghim Hwa should be given time to work out a master plan to clean up the ‘decadence and impotence’ of the MPPP"
date: "1992-02-21"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Friday, 21st February 1992: _

# Tan Ghim Hwa should be given time to work out a master plan to clean up the ‘decadence and impotence’ of the MPPP

DAP commends the MPPP President, Tan Ghim Hwa, for accepting one of the ten DAP proposals that the MPPP President must be a full-time job and not a part-time distraction.</u>

Tan Ghim Hwa was quoted in a local press on 10th February 1992 of wanting to ‘clock in’ at least 60 hours a month as an accountant on assuming the post of MPPP President.

The DAP is both glad and relieved that Tan Ghim Hwa now realises that if he is to fulfil his special responsibility as MPPP President to clean up the ‘decadence and impotence’ of the MPPP, it is going to be a full-time job.

After his swearing-in yesterday, Tan Ghim Hwa said that he intended to spend the next week meeting the MPPP staff and being briefed by the various departments, following which he would prepare a priority list of things he wished to see accomplished in the short and long term.

Tan Ghim Hwa should be given time to work out a master plan to clean up the ‘decadence and impotence’ of the MPPP, and we hope that after his first week of orientation and briefings, he would be able to formulate this master plan to clean up the MPPP ‘decadence and impotence’.

This Master Plan to clean up the ‘decadence and impotence’ of the MPPP should identify and specify the areas which will receive short and long term attention, and the time frame within which all the ‘decadence and impotence’ of the MPPP would be wiped out.

In formulating the Master Plan to clean up the ‘decadence and impotence’ of the MPPP, Tan Ghim Hwa should consider the other nine DAP proposals which we have made in the past five days so that Penang will wipe out its two ‘bad reputations’, firstly, as the ‘Dirtiest place in the country’ and secondly, having a ‘decadent and impotent’ MPPP which was publicly admitted by the Gerakan President, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik himself.
 
