+++ 
title: "Before I reply to Fong Chan Onn, can he prove that he is not a stooge of the headless and faceless MCA paid ‘cultural assassins’ by having a public debate with the DAP on Islamisation policies and measures in Kelantan and Malaysia?"
date: "1992-01-25"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, 25th January 1992:_

# Before I reply to Fong Chan Onn, can he prove that he is not a stooge of the headless and faceless MCA paid ‘cultural assassins’ by having a public debate with the DAP on Islamisation policies and measures in Kelantan and Malaysia?

The MCA Deputy Education Minister, Dr. Fong Chan Onn, made a fierce attack on me and the DAP yesterday, the second day in succession, with regard to the visit to Kelantan by a DAP delegation tomorrow.</u>

It is clear that the headless and faceless MCA paid ‘cultural assassins’ have selected the MCA Deputy Education Minister, Dr. Fong Chan Onn, as their latest striker in the MCA’s ‘all-out war’ against the DAP.

This is why the headless and faceless MCA ‘cultural assassins’ have issued their press attacks on the DAP in the name of Fong Chan Onn for the second day in success. I feel pity for Dr. Fong Chan Onn that he has been reduced to the role of a ‘clown’ of these headless and faceless MCA ‘cultural assassins’. 

The headless and faceless MCA ‘cultural assassins’ have virtually exhausted all the MCA national leaders they could use for their attacks on the DAP.

They had started with the MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, to spearhead the ‘war’ against the DAP, and this was why Liong Sik announced the ‘all-out war’ against the DAP in early October.

But it became immediately evident that the choice of Liong Sik as the MCA’s ‘chief striker’ against the DAP was disastrous, for he is in fact the MCA’s chief liability in any MCA-DAP publicity war! 

The headless and faceless MCA publicity ‘cultural assassins’ had used in succession the MCA Secretary-General, Dr. Ting Chew Peh, MCA Vice Chairman, Chua Jui Meng, MCA Publicity Bureau director, Wong See Wah, MCA Deputy Organising Secretary, Dr. Sak Cheng Lum, MCA Youth chief, Chan Kong Choy, MCA Deputy Finance Minister, Loke Yuen Yow, as the MCA ‘strikers’ against the DAP, but they also prove to be not only over the MCA’s record of political betrayals through their unequal and unprincipled ‘politics of consultation’, but also over their own deeds and actions as well.

The headless and faceless MCA publicity ‘cultural assassins’ seem to have come to the end of the road to find a credible MCA strikers against the DAP – and Dr. Fong Chan Onn seems to be the only one left after they have scraped the bottom of the barrels!

Let me tell Dr. Fong Chan Onn that before I reply to him, can he prove that he is his own man, and not a stooge of the headless and faceless MCA ‘cultural assassins’ and reduced to the role of a ‘clown’ whose job is to sign on the dotted line of whatever statement churned out by the headless and faceless MCA ‘cultural assassins’?

If Dr. Fong Chan Onn cannot prove that he is his own man, I might as well deal directly with the headless and faceless MCA paid ‘cultural assassins’ instead of dealing with their stooges.
Let Dr, Fong Chan Onn prove that he is not a stooge of these headless and faceless MCA cultural assassins’ by declaring that he is prepared to have a public debate with the DAP on the question of Islamisation policies and measures in Kelantan and Malaysia. 

This is because in a public debate, the headless and faceless MCA ‘cultural assassins’ would not be able to help Dr. Fong Chan Onn.

I can assure Chan Onn in advance that I will not represent the DAP in this debate. Will this give Chan Onn more assurance and confidence to have a public debate with the DAP on the question of Islamisation policies and issues and prove that he is his own man and not a mere creature of the headless and faceless MCA paid ‘cultural assassins’?

I will reply to Fong Chan Onn’s ‘fierce’ statement in today’s press after he could prove that he is not a stooge of the headless and faceless MCA paid ‘cultural assassins’.
 
