+++ 
title: "As Karpal Singh has produced the Vijandran pornographic videotape, Samy Vellu should resign as Cabinet Minister and MIC President as he had fully backed D.P. Vijandran over the issue"
date: "1992-07-22"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Tuesday, July 21, 1992:_

# As Karpal Singh has produced the Vijandran pornographic videotape, Samy Vellu should resign as Cabinet Minister and MIC President as he had fully backed D.P. Vijandran over the issue

As DAP National Deputy Chairman and MP for Jelutong, Karpal Singh, has produced a Vijandran pornographic videotape in Parliament yesterday, Samy Vellu should resign as MIC President and Cabinet Minister as he had fully backed D.P. Vijandran over the issue.</u>

On 5th January 1990, Samy Vellu expressed full confidence that Vijandran, then Deputy Speaker of Dewan Rakyat and MIC Secretary-General, would come out of the pornographic tapes controversy “with flying colours”.

Samy Vellu, who was speaking to reporters at the Subang airport on his return from London, said:

“MIC leaders and members must realise that today Mr. Vijandran is being implicated and tomorrow it could be another leader.

“We are not going to run the party to the tune of Karpal Singh.”

With the production of the Vijandran pornographic videotape, Karpal Singh has fully vindicated his expose in Parliament of a sex scandal which had involved a top government at the time, and proved again how the two-thirds Barisan Nasional majority in Parliament had been abused to suppress political and financial scandals of top Barisan Nasional leaders and to evade public accountability.

The last Parliament saw Karpal Singh suspended from Parliament for trying to expose the Vijandran pornographic videotapes scandal, and in this Parliament , I am suspended until the end of the year for trying to make further disclosures about the $130 million MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal involving Samy Vellu himself.

Call on Anwar Ibrahim to tender a public apology to Karpal Singh for moving the motion suspending Karpal from Parliament over the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal

With the production of the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal in Parliament by Karpal Singh, the whole issue has to be re-opened once again.

The Minister of Finance, Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim, who moved the motion to suspend Karpal Singh from Parliament over the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal should tender a public apology now that it is proven beyond a shadow of doubt that Karpal Singh was not engaging in irresponsible and baseless character-assassination when he raised this issue in Parliament in December 1989.

Call on Zaman Khan to re-open police file and investigations into the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal

The CID Director Datuk Mohamed Zaman Khan should re-open the case of the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal now that Karpal Singh had produced such a Vijandran pornographic videotape.
In January 1990, Zaman Khan shocked the whole countyr when he revealed that the police had closed the file on the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal, and that the police had destroyed 11 videotapes and four envelopes of 2,000 photographs and negatives on the directive of the Attorney-General, Tan Sri Abu Talib.

In his press conference on January 10, 1990, Zaman Khan said that with the destruction of the tapes, the police could not further unless someone produced the tapes.

Now that Karpal Singh has produced the tape, Zaman Khan should re-open the file on the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal.

I hope Zaman Khan would show the same zealousness and urgency as he has shown in directing police investigations into my refusal to pay $5.80 toll at the Ayer Keroh Toll Plaza as a citizen protest on July 11.

In fact, I would suggest that Zaman Khan should re-direct his officers assigned to the “5.80 toll” case to the re-opening of the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal as the latter is clearly of more pressing and greater public importance.

Cabinet tomorrow should schedule a special discussion on the re-opening of the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal

The production of the Vijandran pornographic videotape by Karpal Singh in Parliament has great implications and the DAP leadership is studying them before deciding on the course of action to be taken.

The Cabinet tomorrow should schedule a special discussion on the re-opening of the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal with the production by Karpal of the videotape in Parliament yesterday. This is definitely more important than the Cabinet discussing my refusal to pay $5.80 toll during its meeting in Kuala Trengganu.
 
