+++ 
title: "Anwar Ibrahim is setting a bad leadership example in being highly communal in his comments on the DAP’s criticisms against Dr. Ibrahim Saad and Dr. Hilmi bin Haji Yahya at the recent Penang State Assembly"
date: "1992-12-22"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Tuesday, 22nd December 1992:_

# Anwar Ibrahim is setting a bad leadership example in being highly communal in his comments on the DAP’s criticisms against Dr. Ibrahim Saad and Dr. Hilmi bin Haji Yahya at the recent Penang State Assembly

The Finance Minister, Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim, is setting a bad leadership example in being highly communal in his comments on the DAP’s criticisms against two Penang UMNO leaders, Dr. Ibrahim Saad and Dr. Hilmi bin Haji Yahya at the recent Penang State Assembly meeting.</u>

Speaking at the closing of a seminar on Vision 2020 in Penang on Sunday, Anwar Ibrahim, in his capacity of UMNO Vice President and Penang UMNO State Chairman, accused the DAP of ‘menyerang’ the state UMNO, and in particular the Deputy Chief Mnister, Dr. Ibrahim Saad “kerana program membela nasib orang-orang Melayu menunjukkan hasil.”

He alleged that “tindakan DAP itu merupakan satu fahaman perkauman yang sempit apabila melihat kerajaan negeri melalui wakil UMNO membuat kebaikan untuk orang-orang Melayu negeri ini.”

He said: “Apalah sangat kemajuan kita (orang-orang Melayu) berbanding kemajuan kaum lain sehingga dicerca.”

It is most ironical that Anwar Ibrahim should make such irresponsible and racist remarks at a woman leadership course ‘Towards Vision 2020’, as he is making a complete mockery of the Vision 2020 Objectives of creating a united Bangsa Malaysia by trying to communalise issues and dividing the Malaysian people.

It is true that in the recent State Assembly meeting, UMNO leaders like Deputy Chief Mnister Dr. Ibrahim Saad and Exco member Dr. Hilmi bin Haji Yahya were singled out for criticism by the DAP – but this has nothing to do with whatsoever with the irresponsible and groundless allegation of Anwar Ibrahim that the DAP is jealous of the progress being made by the Malays in Penang. 

Dr. Ibrahim Saad was heavily criticised because of his failure to give a satisfactory accounting of his role in the abandonment of a 2,900 low-cost housing scheme (which is five times the state government low-housing target for the entire Six Malaysia Plan) in Relau in exchange for a recreation and golf course and his dealings and connections with the Australian ‘Lone Ranger’ raised in the State Assembly.

Dr. Ibrahim Saad not only failed to give a satisfactory accounting of himself, but in a highly emotional speech, tried to avoid full accountability to the State Assembly by claiming that he was finally accountable to his God!

The DAP totally rejects Ibrahim Saad’s contention, for one’s accountability to God cannot be used to avoid public and political accountability to the State Assembly and the people.

If Dr. Ibrahim Saad’s contention is allowed to stand unchallenged, then many Barisan Nasional leaders would have found an escape route to avoid public accountability and responsibility.

Datuk Seri S. Samy Vellu, for instance, would be declaring from the rooftops all over the country that he is finally accountable to his God, and therefore there is no need for the Anti-Corruption Agency to waste time investigating into the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal.

Anwar Ibrahim seems to apply double-standards, demanding high standards of accountability for others, but not for his own supporters in Penang UMNO.

Dr. Hilmi was criticised because he had lowered the dignity and status of the Penang State Assembly by making ‘third-class’ sexist jokes, at the expense of women, which was joined in by another State Exco member and Gerakan Wanita chief, Kee Phaik Chin.

Is Anwar Ibrahim condoning and supporting Dr. Hilmi in telling indecent jokes in the Penang State Assembly?

If Anwar Ibrahim is upright, and takes a stand based on principles, truth and justice without fear or favour, he should have reprimanded both Dr. Ibrahim Saad and Dr. Hilmi for their misconduct in the Penang State Assembly, instead of giving a communal twist to the issues by make the baseless allegation that the DAP was jealous of the progress being made by the Penang UMNO.
 
