+++ 
title: "Before Wong See Wah and Kang Chin Seng continue with the MCA and Gerakan campaign of lies, let them state which of the eight allegations about the ‘oppression’ and ‘persecution’ of the Chinese in Kelantan are true"
date: "1992-02-15"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Saturday, 15th February 1992:_

# Before Wong See Wah and Kang Chin Seng continue with the MCA and Gerakan campaign of lies, let them state which of the eight allegations about the ‘oppression’ and ‘persecution’ of the Chinese in Kelantan are true

In the past few days, the MCA and Gerakan’s ‘all-out war’ against the DAP has been downgraded and instead of full Cabinet Ministers in the forefront of the attack, the likes of Wong See Wah and Kang Chin Seng have taken over the MCA and Gerakan campaign.</u>

However, before Wong See Wah and Kang Chin Seng continue with the MCA and Gerakan campaign of lies, let them state which of the following eight allegations about the ‘oppression’ and ‘persecution’ of the Chinese in Kelantan are true:

1.	The Chinese in Kelantan cannot eat or sell pork;
2.	They cannot drink beer publicly but must ‘hide and drink steathily’;
3.	They cannot buy or sell liquor;
4.	They must stop business during Muslim prayers;
5.	They cannot go to unisex saloons;
6.	Chinese women must cover their heads and wear Islamic attire;
7.	Chinese women cannot work night shift; and 
8.	Chinese business signboards must be taken down and replaced with Jawi characters.

If Wong See Wah and Kang Chin Seng dare not state which one of these eight allegations about the ‘oppression’ and ‘persecution’ of the Chinese of Kelantan is true, then they will stand exposed as irresponsible rumour-mongers who are prepared to concoct lies just to serve their petty political interests.

Wong See Wah and Kang Chin Seng have not been able to deny that the MCA and Gerakan have no principles but only political opportunism. They claim to oppose Islamic State, but when directed by UMNO, they could accept PAS as a partner in the Barisan Nasional from 1974-1977. They claim to be concerned about Islamisation efforts by the PAS-led State Government in Kelantan, but they gave full support to all the Islamisation measures including those detrimental to non-Muslim rights proposed by UMNO in all the other states, as well as at the national level.

It is no wonder that MCA and Gerakan can command respect from no one, not even from UMNO!

The DAP has offered its hand of co-operation to MCA and Gerakan to jointly oppose any Islamisation measures which infringe non-Muslim rights, whether from PAS or UMNO, in jointly concluding a Three-Lim ‘Year of the Monkey’ Declaration committing the MCA, Gerakan and DAP to opposing Islamic State and Islamisation measures which infringe non-Muslim rights.

However, MCA and Gerakan leaders dare not accept the hand of co-operation from DAP for fear of displeasing the UMNO Big Brother.

It is a sad day for the MCA and Gerakan when they dare not accept the hand of co-operation of DAP because they are afraid of displeasing UMNO. This is the fate of political parties which have become political parasites and have lost all independent will of its own.

DAP has made it very clear publicly that the DAP will oppose Islamisation measures whether by PAS or UMNO which infringe non-Muslim rights and interests. But MCA and Gerakan are only authorised to oppose PAS measures but not UMNO’s Islamisation measures which infringe non-Muslim rights and interests.

MCA and Gerakan leades should explain to the people whether it is so important for them to continue to be Ministers, Deputy Ministers, or even Chief Minister and State Exco Members that they are prepared to sell their political principles, soul and integrity?
 
