+++ 
title: "Fourth Challenge to Liong Sik and Keng Yaik to declare the stand of MCA and Gerakan on the next 20 of the so-called ’62 Islamisation measures’ of PAS Kelantan State Government in its first year of office"
date: "1992-01-10"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Friday, January 10, 1992:_

# Fourth Challenge to Liong Sik and Keng Yaik to declare the stand of MCA and Gerakan on the next 20 of the so-called ’62 Islamisation measures’ of PAS Kelantan State Government in its first year of office

In the past few months, the MCA President, Datuk Dr.Ling Kiong Sik and the Gerakan President, Datuk Dr.Lim Keng Yaik, have led the MCA and Gerakan in a sustained attack on the DAP for betraying the rights of the non-Muslim Malaysians in turning Kelantan into an Islamic State under PAS Kelantan State Government rule.</u>

To back up their charges, the MCA and Gerakan leaders allege that in its first 12 months in office, the PAS Kelantan State Government had implemented 62 Islamisation measures which had deprived the non-Muslim Malaysians of their fundamental rights and interests.

It is therefore most extraordinary that when I issued challenges to Liong Sik and Keng Yaik to declare whether they oppose everyone of the so-called ‘62 Islamisation measures’, and would want DAP leaders during our visit and meeting with PAS Kelantan State Government leaders, to protest and demand their total abolition, there has been shocking and total silence from the MCA and Gerakan Presidents.

If MCA and Gerakan are so absolutely confident and sure that the so-called ‘62 Islamisation measures’ have undermined and destroyed non-Muslim rights and interests in Kelantan, why are they afraid to take a public stand to denounce every one of the 62 Islamisation measures?
Challenge to Liong Sik and Keng Yaik to a public debate on “The Politics of Islamisation and Islamic State” before DAP leaders’ visit to Kelantan

This is why the DAP is different from the MCA and Gerakan. If the DAP had ever said that all the PAS Kelantan State Government actions are detrimental and prejudicial to non-Muslim rights and interests, I would have no hesitation in declaring that every one of the so-called ‘62 Islamisation measures’ are bad for non-Muslim Malaysians and for the country, and must be condemned and repealed!

This is in fact the reason why I had earlier challenged Liong Sik and Keng Yaik to a public debate, whether jointly or separately with me, on the issue of Islamic State and Islamisation.

One would have thought that with the proof of ‘62 Islamisation measures’, Liong Sik and Keng Yaik would have jumped at the opportunity to have a public debate with me to prove once and for all, that the DAP must bear full responsibility for all great harm done to the Chinese and the other non-Muslim 
Malaysians in Kelantan by the actions and measures of the PAS Kelantan State Government.

But Liong Sik and Keng Yaik have no such confidence. They must have realised that in such a public debate, it will be MCA and Gerakan which will be exposed as the political parties which have no political principles which had supported Islamisation measures adversely affecting non-Muslim rights and interests and not the DAP!

Furthermore, Liong Sik and Keng Yaik should have realised that the so-called ‘62 Islamisation measures’ would be turned into a sword against the MCA and Gerakan, and not against the DAP!
If Liong Sik and Keng Yaik dispute this, then let me reiterate my challenge to both of them to a public debate on “The Politics of Islamisation and Islamic State” before the DAP leaders make their visit to Kelantan, which has been fixed tentatively for the end of the month.

Meanwhile, I am today issuing my fourth challenge in my series to get Liong Sik and Kng Yaik to make a public stand on behalf of the MCA and Gerakan on the so-called ‘62 Islamisation measures’, by asking them to declare their stand on each one of the next 20 of such measures (i.e. No.26-No.45), which are as follows:

“26.Semasa hari-hari perayaan agama Islam, tidak boleh mengadakan rancangan hiburan. Pernah berlaku suatu kejadian di mana tayangan gambar diperhentikan semasa tengah disiarkan.

27.Olahragawan dan olahragawati mesti menjalankan activiti-activiti mereka secara berasingan. Pakaian sukan juga memberatkan corak Islam.

28.Menukarkan Pusat Seni yang menjalankan pertunjukan seni terbuka kepada pusat seni yang terhad kepada para pelancong untuk mengenali seni budaya negeri Kelantan sahaja, supaya tidak ujudny sebarang pertunjukan terbuka yang tidak sesuai dari segi amalan Islam.

29.Mengharamkan pertunjukan Makyong, Joget, Menora dll, pertunjukan Wayang Kulit pula dikenakan had yang ketat.

30. Mengharamkan pertunjukan yang melibatkan kedua-dua lelaki dan perempuan telah diharamkan. Tarian kaum bukan Muslim yang melibatkan kedua-dua lelaki dan perempuan dihadkan di tempat-tempat khas kepada kaum bukan Muslim sahaja.

31. Cadangan menukarkan nama Pantai Cinta Berahi menjadi Pantai Cahaya Bulan untuk menegakkan imej Negeri Islam.

32.Mendirikan tanda-tanda papan yang mengandungi ayat suci Al-Quran supaya mencerminkan KeIslaman Negeri Kelantan.

33.Tidak lagi mengeluarkan permit membuka pusat membeli-belah kerana pusat membeli-belah untuk penganut Islam yang sedia ada telah mengakibatkan amalan yang membazir dan membawa pengaruh yang negatif terhadap perniagaan-perniagaan kecil.

34.Menggalakkan para penganut Islam membeli barangan daripada kedai Muslim supaya keuntungan itu boleh kembali kepada tangan penganut Islam yang mana dapat digunakan sebagai bayaran kepada tabung (cukai) Islam.

35.Mengharamkan semua pertunjukan Rock, nyanyian dan tarian yang lebih terbuka juga diharamkan atas sebab bercanggahan dengan moral Islam.
36.Mengepung dan memusnahkan kawasan yang mempunyai activiti-activiti pelacuran.

37.Lima buah kedai salon di Kota Bahru telah diharamkan dengan alasan menjalankan activiti-activiti pelacuran, manakala 11 buah lagi desenaraihitamkan.
38.Membasmikan kedai salon yang mempunyai kemudahan “bilik gelap” dan menghadkan bahawa kedai salon tidak boleh menghidangkan minuman kepada pelanggan, penggunting perlu memakai kad identiti, jumlah para pekerja tidak boleh melebihi satu kali ganda daripada bilangan kerusi yang ada.

39.Kedai salon tidak boleh menjalankan perniagaan bermula daripada 6 p.m. hari Khamis sehingga 6 p.m. hari Jumaat. Tempoh berniaga pada hari-hari biasa tiodak boleh melebihi 10 pm

40.Masa peniagaan kedai salon adalah terhad di bulan puasa, permit niaga dikurangkan tempoh daripada satu tahun menjadi setengah tahun, dan perlu diperbaharui setiap enam bulan.

41.Bermula daripada Januari, kedai salon tidak boleh melayan pelanggan yang berlainan jantina. Kedai salon perlu menjelaskan jantina pelanggannya, dan kedai untuk wanita tidak boleh melayan pelanggan yang terdiri daripada lelaki yang menganuti agama Islam.

42.Tidak lagi memperbaharui permit beer untuk restoran bukan hanya untuk kaum Cina. Perlu mengadakan bilik yang berasingan khas untuk meminum minuman keras dan tidak boleh menjual minuman keras kepada Muslim. Bekas mengisi minuman keras juga perlu diasingkan.

43.Melarangkan kaum Muslim menjual minuman keras kepada pelanggan dan melarang kaum Muslim bekerja di tempat yang ada menjual minuman keras.

44.Menilai semula peraturan-peraturan di Karaoke, bar dam hotel serta membekukan permit menjual beer di Karaoke, bar dan hotel yang tidak mempunyai permit memiliki arak.

45.Hotel bertaraf antarabangsa yang unggul di Kelantan tidak dibenarkan menjual minuman keras, menyebabkan para pelancong kehilangan tempat minum arak.”
 
