+++ 
title: "Untrue that DAP has accepted and endorsed the Islamisation policies of PAS Kelantan State Government"
date: "1992-01-16"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Thursday, 16th January 1992:_

# Untrue that DAP has accepted and endorsed the Islamisation policies of PAS Kelantan State Government

There was one newspaper report yesterday (Nanyang Siang Pau) which carried the headline “DAP accepts Islamisation Policy” which reported the Kelantan Mentri Besar, Nik Abdul Aziz, as saying on Tuesday that ‘DAP leaders has accepted the Islamisation policy of the Kelantan State Government’.</u>

I do not know whether the Kelantan Mentri Besar had been misquoted. If this is a correct report of Nik Abdul Aziz’s statement, then the Kelantan Mentri Besar is completely mistaken, for the DAP has not accepted or endorsed the Islamisation policies of PAS Kelantan State Government.

In fact , this is why DAP leaders will be visiting Kelantan both to meet Kelantan State Government leaders as well as the people on the policies and measures of the PAS Kelantan State Government in its 15 months in office.

As expected, the highly opportunistic leaders of MCA and Gerakan had pounced on this newspaper report and their publicists and ‘cultural assasins’ are burning midnight oil to churn out statements to attack the DAP. One Gerakan small-fry had in fact issued a statement yesterday, regarding this newspaper report as ’black-and-white’ proof that the DAP had accepted the Islamisation policies of the 
PAS Kelantan State Government.

Malaysian are now more sophisticated and can see through the antics and pure opportunism of the MCA and Gerakan leaders.MCA and Gerakan leaders fully support the Islamisation policies of UMNO at the Federal and all the other State government levels but want the people to believe they oppose the Islamisation policies of PAS in Kelantan.

Let me tell the MCA President, Datuk Seri Dr.Ling Liong Sik and the Gerakan President, Datuk Sri Dr.Lim Keng Yaik that MCA and Gerakan will never have credibility or earn public respect unless they are consistent and principles in their political stands.

If MCA and Gerakan want to support the Islamisation policies of UMNO, then they have to be consistent and support the Islamisation policies of PAS. If MCA and Gerakan want to oppose the Islamisation policies of PAS, then they too must be consistent and also oppose the Islamisation policies of UMNO.

To support Islamisation policies because they are from UMNO but to oppose Islamisation policies because they are from PAS only expose MCA and Gerakan as political parties which have no political principles, integrity and morality. It will only continue to make MCA and Gerakan the laughing-stocks of the Malaysian political arena.
 
