+++ 
title: "MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers really have no ‘class’, who when scolded, do not have ‘red face’ but can still feel proud"
date: "1992-02-25"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Tuesday, 25th February 1992:_

# MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers really have no ‘class’, who when scolded, do not have ‘red face’ but can still feel proud

The present generation of MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers really have no class. When scolded, they not only do not have ‘red face’ but can feel proud.</u>

Just because I publicly admitted that the MCA’s campaign of lies in its ‘all-out war’ against the DAP had been very successful in the first two months and put the entire DAP on the defensive for the first time in DAP history, MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers feel very proud.

The MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers do not mind that the MCA ‘all-out war’ against the DAP has now turned into an ‘all-out rout’, so long as in the initial two months the MCA had the upperhand. This also shows that the expectations of MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers of themselves are very low indeed.

This is why the MCA National Publicity Chief and Deputy Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department, Wong See Wah, could come out with a statement clearly trying to claim credit for the initial success of the MCA propaganda campaign of lies for the first two months.

But is there any reason for the MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers to feel proud, or should they have ‘red face’ and feel thoroughly ashamed of thenselves?

I had said that the MCA’s propaganda campaign had been so successful, because the DAP had underestimated the power of MCA lies and falsehoods, “that a lie repeated a hundred or a thousand times could influence more and more people unless it is contradicted and exposed.”

Instead of feeling so proud that I had conceded that the MCA propaganda campaign of lies had been so successful in the initial two months, the MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers should be thoroughly ashamed of themselves for two reasons: firstly, that their propaganda campaign of lies against the DAP had been exposed; and secondly, their ‘all-out war’ against the DAP has turned into an ‘all-out rout’!

However, Wong See Wah and the MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers are proud that their campaign of lies in the first two months had been very successful, although it has ended now in an ‘all-out rout’.

When a person does not feel shame for doing wrong things, then it is the beginning of his moral decadence

Let me tell the MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers that once a person cannot feel shame for doing wrong things, like telling lies and falsehoods, then it is the beginning of his moral decadence. May be this is one important reason why from one generation to another, the MCA national leadership gets worse and worse in political, intellectual and moral quality and standards.

If I were Wong See Wah and the MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers, I would be very worried as to how to regain credibility after the MCA propaganda campaign of lies against the DAP had been exposed, turning the MCA’s ‘all-out war’ into an ‘all-out rout’.

Wong See Wah and the MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers should stop turning and twisting, and answer whether they are now prepared to admit that they were telling untruths when they spread the propaganda throughout the country in the first two months of the MCA ‘all-out war’ that the Chinese in Kelantan are in ‘deep waters and furnace heat’ and had been ‘oppressed’ and ‘persecuted’ by the PAS-led Kelantan State Government, as well as spreading the following eight allegations:

1.	The Chinese in Kelantan cannot eat or sell pork;
2.	They cannot drink beer publicly but must ‘hide and drink steathily’;
3.	They cannot buy or sell liquor;
4.	They must stop business during Muslim prayers;
5.	They cannot go to unisex saloons;
6.	Chinese women must cover their heads and wear Islamic attire;
7.	Chinese women cannot work night shift; and 
8.	Chinese business signboards must be taken down and replaced with Jawi characters.

If Wong See Wah and the MCA Ministers and Deputy Ministers are not prepared to confess their lies, then why can’t anyone of them produce proof that anyone of these eight allegations is true?
 
