+++ 
title: "DAP hopes that with Dr. Mahathir’s second visit to China beginning tomorrow, there would be the fullest normalization of relations between Malaysia and China where no one would ever question the loyalty of Malaysian Chinese to Malaysia"
date: "1993-06-12"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang:_

(1)	in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, June 12, 1993:

# DAP hopes that with Dr. Mahathir’s second visit to China beginning tomorrow, there would be the fullest normalization of relations between Malaysia and China where no one would ever question the loyalty of Malaysian Chinese to Malaysia													   

DAP hopes that with the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed’s second visit to China beginning tomorrow, there would be the fullest normalization of relations between Malaysia and China where no one would ever question the loyalty of Malaysian Chinese to Malaysia.</u>

It has been reported that Malaysia is expected to be the fifth largest investor in China, with investments doubling to RM 2.57 billion this year. Last year, Malaysia was ranked the 10th leading investor in China with investments totaling RM 1.28 billion.

Malaysian investing abroad, whether in China and other countries, should be seen from the point of view of strengthening the competitiveness of the Malaysian economy, as reverse investments must be regarded as an important strategy for Malaysia in a globalised economy.

By investing overseas, Malaysians will be creating a foothold in foreign markets and reverse investment will increasingly play a critical role for Malaysia because of the very close linkage between investment and trade flows.

And there is no doubt that China, at present the fastest-growing economy in the world with its 1.2 billion population, must be regarded as a very important market and trading partner for Malaysia, especially as China is forecast to become the largest economy in the world in a generation or so.

(2)	in Petaling Jaya on Tuesday, June 15, 1993:

DAP welcomes Li Peng’s assurance that China would resolve the Spratlys dispute by peaceful means

DAP welcome the assurance given by the Chinese Premier, Li Peng, that China would resolve the Spratlys dispute by peaceful means when he reiterated China’s stand in his meeting with Prima Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, in Beijing yesterday.

China’s dismissal of the ‘unfounded’ allegations that with economic growth, China would be a threat to the other countries in the region and renunciation of a ‘hegemonistic policy now or in the future’ should allay fears raised in the West as well as in Asia of China’s military intentions.

Malaysia has clearly a stake and interest in the further expansion of the economy in China and the raising of the living standards of the l.2 billion Chinese, as this could greatly stimulate global trade and create large new markets for Malaysia and other developing countries while demand in the developed world slowed.

The explicit support given by Chine to the East Asia Economic Caucus proposal give the concept a great boost and bring closer the day of its realization and establishment.

(3)	in Penang on Wednesday, June 16, 1993:

Tsu Koon has not done enough homework for the China trip or agreement would have been reached for a China consulate in Penang															   

DAP welcomes the agreement concluded between Malaysia and China during the visit of the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, for the establishment of a Malaysian consulate in Kwangtung and a Chinese consulate in Sarawak.

The Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon, has not done enough homework for the China trip or agreement would also have been reached for a China consulate to be set up in Penang and for another Malaysian consulate to be established in southern China, as in the Fukien province.

Dr. Koh Tsu Koon was too busy in April and May campaigning in various parts of the country for one of the three Gerakan Vice President’s posts, expecting a challenge from Penang State Exco member, Dr. Goh Cheng Teik – which finally did not materialize. In any event, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon was forced by the leadership to withdraw from the party contest in the last minute to give way to Dominic Puthucheary in return for the understanding that he would be nominated a Gerakan Vive President.

The result of Tsu Koon’s Gerakan internal politicking is that he did not do enough homework for the China trip to present a case to the Prima Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, and the Chinese Government for the need for a Chinese consulate in Penang to promote greater exchanges and contacts between the people in the two countries, whether in trade, tourism or cultural exchange.

If Tsu Koon had done enough homework, it should not be difficult for agreement to be reached during Dr. Mahathir’s visit to China for the establishment of a Chinese consulate in Penang, especially as there is agreement for the twinning of Penang and Xiamen in China.

It is not too late for Tsu Koon to make up for his neglect, as there are still six days before the conclusion of Dr. Mahathir’s China visit. Tsu Koon should try to get agreement between the two countries on the establishment of a Chinese consulate in Penang and another Malaysian consulate in China and for the announcement to be made at the end of Dr. Mahathir’s China visit.

(4)	in Penang on Sunday, June 20, 1993:

DAP praises Tsu Koon for pursing the issue of the establishment of a Chinese consulate in Penang to promote closer trade, tourism and cultural exchanges										   

I commend the Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Tsu Koon, for doing the right and proper thing in pursing the issue of the establishment of a Chinese consulate in Penang to promote closer trade, tourism and cultural exchanges between Malaysia and China.

In fact, Penang should be the natural and logical place for the establishment of a Chinese consulate outside the Chinese embassy in Kuala Lumpur.

However, we will overlook Tsu Koon’s failure to do adequate homework for the China visit in not securing the establishment of Chinese consulate in Penang on the agenda of the second visit of the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed to China, and hope that the establishment of the Chinese consulate in Penang could be formalized by this year itself.
 
