+++ 
title: "Kit Siang warns Liong Sik to be careful with his comments on the DAP Save Bukit China Fund or he would land up in court for defamation like Star"
date: "1993-08-19"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, after filling defamation suit against Star in Kuala Lumpur High Court on Thursday, August 19, 1993:_

# Kit Siang warns Liong Sik to be careful with his comments on the DAP Save Bukit China Fund or he would land up in court for defamation like Star

I warn the MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, to be careful with his comments on the DAP Save Bukit China Fund or he would land up in court for defamation like Star.</u>

Liong Sik should not think that DAP leaders are like MCA leaders, who have no reputation or integrity to defend.

Everybody knows that there are MCA leaders who are crooks and criminal – and MCA had even President who had been jailed not only locally, but also abroad, for white-collar crimes.

DAP leaders go to jail because of our ideals and our sacrifice for the rights of the people, while MCA leaders go to jail because they had misappropriated fund from the people.

I had challenge Liong Sik to a ‘mutual questioning’ session anywhere anytimes, where he could ask any questions he want about the DAP Save Bukit China Fund – but he must be prepared also to answer questions about the numerous MCA financial scandals, including his personal Bolton Finance scandal.

If Liong Sik dare not accept my challenge – which remains open  - to a ‘mutual questioning session’, then he should stop the campaign of falsehoods and character-assassination against me, or he would find himself in court just like STAR.

DAP’s Save Bukit China Campaign ten years ago is historical and successful campaign to defend the religious, cultural and historical rights of Malaysians, and we will not allow Liong Sik, who had conspired with Malacca Chief Minister, Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik, to try to demolish Bukit China, to blacken the memory of the DAP Save Bukit China Campaign.
 
