+++ 
title: "Liong Sik is showing himself as a timid and indecisive Minister in not directing an immediate ban on night golfing in the vicinity of the Kuala Lumpur International Airport to ensure the safety of air travelers"
date: "1993-07-14"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Java on Wednesday, July 14, 1993:_

# Liong Sik is showing himself as a timid and indecisive Minister in not directing an immediate ban on night golfing in the vicinity of the Kuala Lumpur International Airport to ensure the safety of air travelers

The Transport Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Ling Liong Sik, is showing himself as a timid and indecisive Minister in not directing an immediate ban on night golfing in the vicinity of the Kuala Lumpur International Airport to ensure the safety of the air travellers.</u>

The press had reported that the 'blinding floodlights' for night golfing at neighbouring golf clubs in the vicinity of the Kuala Lumpur International Airport had caused 'nightmarish experiences' to pilots trying to land at Subang International Airport, as they fear a misjudgment could cause them to mistake the floodlights as the airport, approach lights.

The standard reaction of the Transport Minister, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, to this grave matter is most deplorable as he is virtually gambling with the lives of the air-travellers.

Liong Sik expressed concern and said the Ministry "would like to listen to the views of the relevant authorities before making a decision." Does Liong Sik want some air mishap to take place, with the loss of many lives, creating even greater notoriety for Malaysia than the two Subang International Airport fires in six months before he is prepared to act?

As Transport Minister, Liong Sik should have the courage to take bold decisions when such actions are called for, as in this case, directing an immediate ban on night golfing and. the switching off of the 'blinding floodlights' in the neighbouring golf clubs in the vicinity of the Kuala Lumpur International Airport, until it could be proved, that, they do not pose a threat to the safety of air travellers.

Surely, it should be elementary to Liong Sik as Transport Minister that the safety of the air travellers must always take priority over the comfort, of the night golfers at the neighbouring golf clubs in the vicinity of the Kuala Lumpur International Airport!

Liong Sik should give greater credence to the representations of the Malaysia Airline Pilots' Association and the Board of Airline Representatives than to the assurances of the golf clubs on such an important matter as concerning the lives of air-travellers.

Liong Sik must, be held personally responsible for any mishap that should take place because of his failure to take action to order an immediate ban on 'night golfing1 and the 'blinding floodlights' in the neighbouring golf clubs in the vicinity of the Kuala Lumpur International Airport.
 
