+++ 
title: "Penang DAP to grade Dr. Koh Tsu Koon on the Ten Golden Rules to earn respect as a Chief Minister with credibility and authority once every six months"
date: "1993-07-09"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and  MP for Tan Jung, Lim Kit Si-ang, in Penang on Friday, 9th July 1993:_

# Penang DAP to grade Dr. Koh Tsu Koon on the Ten Golden Rules to earn respect as a Chief Minister with credibility and authority once every six months

Penang DAP will grade Dr. Koh Tsu Koon on the Ten Golden Rules to earn respect as a Chief Minister with credibility and authority once every six months.</u>

Yesterday, in the State Assembly, I handed the Ten Golden Rules for Dr. Koh Tsu Koon to earn respect as a Chief Minister with credibility and authority to the Speaker, Datuk Abdul Rahman Abbas to be forwarded to Dr. Koh Tsu Koon.

If Dr. Koh Tsu Koon has not yet received a copy of the Ten Golden Rules from Datuk Abdul Rahman Abbas, we are prepared to send him a copy.

The Ten Golden Rules for Dr. Koh Tsu Koon to earn respect as a Chief Minister with credibility and authority are:

1. Show the highest respect, to the State Assembly and not subordinate it to his personal or Gerakan party interests;
2. Do not turn and twist and resort to abuses when he could not answer the DAP in the State Assembly.
3. Show greater confidence in himself.
4. Show greater originality.
5. Be Honest, in the State Assembly.
6. Show greater command of State Assembly proceedings.
7. Show greater respect for the office of Chief Minister and avoid conduct which belittle the office,
8. Serious in his undertakings and commitments.
9. Do not be too obsessed with press manipulation or image.
10. Exercise full control of the Penang State Government.

Dr. Koh Tsu Koon had repeatedly broken these Ten Golden Rules during the current meeting of the Penang State Assembly.

For instance, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon accused me of 'little cleverness1 in the State Assembly two days ago. This was exactly what I accused Dr. Koh Tsu Koon last year, for his 'little cleverness' in deliberately arranging the Penang State Assembly meetings to clash with Parliamentary meetings so that I would not be able to spend all my time in the State Assembly.

All that Tsu Koon has done is to be a copycat and repeat, it in the Penang State Assembly two days ago. The big difference is that I had a very strong reason for criticising his 'little cleverness1 in the Penang State Assembly last year, but Tsu Koon could only repeat the allegation of 'little cleverness', without any reason whatsoever -which makes him a poor 'copycat'.

Tsu Koon has broken Golden Rule Four that he must show greater originality and not be a second-class copycat. In fact, in the current meeting of the Penang State Assembly, Tsu Koon had done this at least thirty times - just repeating what DAP Assemblymen had said against him and the Penang State Government.

If necessary, Penang DAP will compile a full list of the instances where Dr. Koh Tsu Koon had broken Golden Rule Four in merely repeating what DAP Assemblymen had earlier said in the State Assembly!
 
