+++ 
title: "DAP supports the holding of the 2000 Olympic Games in Beijing, to mark the coming-of-age of the Asian Century"
date: "1993-07-24"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the Pantai Remis DAP Branch Anniversary Dinner held at Pantai Remis on Saturday, July 24, 1993 at 7.30 p.m._

# DAP supports the holding of the 2000 Olympic Games in Beijing, to mark the coming-of-age of the Asian Century

DAP  supports the holding of the Olympic Games in  the 2,000  in Beijing to mark the coming-of-age of the Asian Century, taking  of  China's  proper place in global affairs  as  well  as  t maintenance and expansion of China's international links.</u>

Since the revival of Olympic Games in 1896, Olympic Games have been staged only twice in Asian cities: Tokyo in 1964 and Seoul in 1988, while they have been staged in Europe fifteen times and in the Americas five times.

In 1996, the world games would be held in the Americas again, where the five interlaced rings of the Olympic Games emblem would fly over Atlanta, U.S.A.

DAP calls on the International Olympic Committee to award the Olympic Games 2,000 to Beijing as Asia's turn for another Olympics Games cannot be matched by anyone of the other six contenders to host the 2,000 Olympics, whether Sydney or Manchester, England.

The award of 2,000 Olympics to Beijing would have the effect of stimulating more reforms towards a more open society, both economically and politically.

DAP calls on the Cabinet to direct the Education Ministry Evaluation Committee to evaluate the degrees of all Taiwan and Nantah degrees with a view to accord genuine 'total recognition1 within three months
The announcement that, the Cabinet has decided to recognise all Taiwan medical degrees if they pass the evaluation by the Education Ministry Evaluation Committee is an empty announcement.

It is like announcing that the Government will give university places to all non-Malay students provided that they can pass the government's quota test.

Can the MCA Ministers mention one case where the Government announced that it had decided to accord recognition to a foreign degree subject to the proviso that it passed the evaluation of the Education Ministry Evaluation Committee?

DAP calls on the Cabinet, next. Wednesday to direct the Education Ministry Evaluation Committee to evaluate the degrees of all Taiwan and Nantah degrees with a view to accord genuine 'total recognition1 in three months.
 
