+++ 
title: "Fourteenth Challenge to Liong Sik for him to accept within a week: Public Debate in Mandarin on ‘The relevance of Tsu Tong Poh to Malaysian politics today, with particular reference to DAP and MCA’"
date: "1993-08-30"
tags:
+++

_By Parliament Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Monday, 30th August 1993:_
	
# Fourteenth Challenge to Liong Sik for him to accept within a week: Public Debate in Mandarin on ‘The relevance of Tsu Tong Poh to Malaysian politics today, with particular reference to DAP and MCA

If the MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik does not declare his family assets by tomorrow, he would have failed in the first of my challenges to him to be accepted within a week.</u>

	By Wednesday, Liong Sik would have failed another four of my challenges for him to accept within a week.

	Malaysians will be waiting to see whether the MCA President is able to accept any single one of my challenges for him to accept within a week, or whether he would fail in all of them.

	Today, I am issuing a fourteenth challenge to Liong Sik for him to accept within a week – to a public debate with me in Mandarin on ‘The relevance of Tsu Tong Poh to Malaysian politics today, with particular reference to DAP and MCA’.

	One of Liong Sik’s ‘cow-dung counselors’ – his press secretary – had declared that the MCA President had become an expert on Tsu Tong Poh directly from the Chinese texts.

	If this is the case, I would be at a disadvantage, but I am still prepared to challenge Liong Sik to a public debate in Mandarin on Tsu Tong Poh and his relevance to Malaysian politics, with particular reference to DAP and MCA.

	Or does Liong Sik want to have a public debate on Tsu Tong Poh in English?

	In this public debate on Tsu Tong Poh, Liong Sik will have an opportunity to ‘cleanse himself’ of the ‘cow-dung’ which he had splattered all over his own face since early this month when he was foolish enough to believe his ‘cow-dung counselors’ as to publicly advance the Tsu Tong Poh ‘cow-dung’ political theory.

	In the past few days, Liong Sik’s ‘cow-dung counselors’ were so at a loss to my series of challenges to the MCA President that the only thing they could think of is to be ‘cheap copycats’ and repeat what I had said.

	Liong Sik would not have landed in so much trouble if he had heeded my earlier advice to sack his ‘cow-dung counselors’.
							
 
