+++ 
title: "Twenty DAP MPs sent urgent cable to Prime Minister to suspend Samy Vellu as Cabinet Minister and to ensure that there is no cover-up of the 16-month Anti-Corruption Agency investigations"
date: "1993-08-10"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Tuesday, August 10, 1993:_

# Twenty DAP MPs sent urgent cable to Prime Minister to suspend Samy Vellu as Cabinet Minister and to ensure that there is no cover-up of the 16-month Anti-Corruption Agency investigations

I have received a report from the DAP Deputy Secretary Genaral, P. Patto and the DAP Assistant National Treasurer and MP for Klang, Fong Kui Lun who this morning visited Peru A. Tamilmani, Managing Editor, Thoothan Weekly, who has entered into the fifth day of his fast at Batu Caves to protest against the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal and the long delay on the part of the authorities in taking action to bring justice to the Indian community in general and the MAIKA shareholders in particular.</u>

Peru A. Tamilmani has critically endangered his health in conducting the fast to protest against the gross injustices of the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal. His doctor had advised him to end the fast if his life is not to be placed in peril, and his close friends and relatives are worried about his life.

Sdr. Patto informed me that he had advised Tamilmani to end his fast because of his health, but Tamilmani seems set to make his protest at the risk to his health and even to his life.

Twenty DAP MPs have today sent an urgent cable to the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, drawing his attention to the fast being conducted by Tamilmani, and asking him to suspend MIC President as Cabinet Minister because of his pivotal role in the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal, and to ensure that there is no cover-up of the 16-month Anti- Corruption Agency investigations into scandal.

I will make a special trip to Kuala Lumpur tomorrow to visit Tamilmani in Batu Caves.
 
