+++ 
title: "Gerakan leaders should stop twisting and turning and declare whether they agree with the DAP in calling on the Government and the Rulers to return to the discussion table to resolve the constitutional crisis amicably"
date: "1993-01-30"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, 30th January 1993:_

# Gerakan leaders should stop twisting and turning and declare whether they agree with the DAP in calling on the Government and the Rulers to return to the discussion table to resolve the constitutional crisis amicably

It is pathetic to see the Gerakan leaders, like Dr. Kang Chin Seng and Kerk Choo Ting, twisting and turning in trying to politicize the constitutional issue.</u>

I would ask the Gerakan leaders to stop twisting and turning and declare in a forthright manner whether they agree with the DAP in calling on the Government and the Rulers to return to the discussion table to resolve the constitutional crisis amicably.

Or are the Gerakan leaders only ‘brave’ enough to support the idea that the Government and the Rulers to return to the discussion table when the UMNO leaders have given them the ‘green light’?

I have said that the DAP does not want to ‘politicise’ the constitutional crisis, but if the Gerakan and MCA leaders continue to play party politics on this issue, then the DAP would have to respond to their baseless attacks and distortions.

The Gerakan leaders are claiming to be great defenders of the people against royal wrongdoings. If this is the case, why did the Gerakan fully support the Barisan Nasional in 1984 to suspend the DAP Deputy Chairman and MP for Jelutong, Sdr. Karpal Singh, from attending Parliament for 20 months in 1984 for raising the issue of the Sultan of Johore assaulting people?

Are the Gerakan leaders ‘brave and courageous’ when they have been given the ‘green light’ by UMNO, but ‘cowardly’ when there is no ‘green light’ by UMNO?

I would invite the Gerakan leaders to stop their childish and irresponsible attempt to ‘politicise’ the constitutional crisis, and join the DAP in seeking an early and amicable settlement to the constitutional crisis so that the economic prospects of the country are not adversely affected.

If the Gerakan leaders dare not join the DAP in trying to find an early and amicable settlement to the constitutional crisis, then they should keep quiet and stop being ‘spoilers’.
 
