+++ 
title: "Kit Siang offers Liong Sik a moratorium on political exchanges between MCA and DAP on ‘cow-dung politics’ in the press"
date: "1993-08-15"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliament Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the opening of the Perak DAP State Convention in Ipoh on Sunday, 15th August 1993 at 10 a.m._

# Kit Siang offers Liong Sik a moratorium on political exchanges between MCA and DAP on ‘cow-dung politics’ in the press

Several MCA leaders have jumped to the defence of MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, to justify his ‘cow-dung political theory’, like the Deputy Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department, Datuk Wong See Wah and the Deputy Finance Minister, Datuk Loke Yuen Low.</u>

In actual fact, See Wah and Yuen Yow are not helping but only further embarrasing Liong Sik.

Although Liong Sik does not have ‘first-hand’ information of Chinese society, but must depend on ‘second-hand’ channel to understand what is happening, he should have known by now that his ‘cow-dung political theory’ had boomeranged on him – for he was in fact scolding himself!

Coupled with his ‘tiger and crocodile’ tale, Liong Sik has ended up as a ‘crocodile which like cow-dung’!

Liong Sik’s beat hope is that this whole ‘cow-dung political controversy’ would die down immediately, be buried and forgotten. However, in coming to the defence of his ‘cow-dung political theory’, See Wah and Yoong Yow are only prolonging Liong Sik’s agony as the MCA’s first ‘cow-dung’ President.

DAP wants to thank Liong Sik’s ‘cow-dung counsellors’ for plunging Liong Sik into such politics of of ‘cow-dung’, which has proved former MCA leaders like Ng Cheng Kiat, Kok Wee Kiat (and even Lee Kim Sai) right that Liong Sik is not qualified to be MCA President.

If Kim Sai had to been a member of the MCA President’s ‘Counsellors’, the Liong Sik’s ‘cow-dung’ political chapter would never have happened – for Kim Sai would have told Liong Sik that he was only scolding himself.

I am sure Kim Sai would also have advised Liong Sik that the great Chinese poet Su-Tung-Po does not have an elder sister to be used in his ‘cow-dung politics’ tale!

I would advise Liong Sik to be very careful in future whenever his ‘cow-dung counsellors’ make proposals or give him tips for his speeches, for Liong Sik had never done so much damage to his own reputation than his own tales of ‘cow-dung political’ and the ‘tiger and the crocodile’.

The DAP is prepared to continue with the MCA-DAP exchanges on Liong Sik’s ‘cow-dung politics’, for we have nothing to lose as the joke is on Liong Sik himself.

However, I am offering Liong Sik a moratorium on MCA-DAP exchanges on ‘cow-dung politics’ in the press, for although the joke is on Liong Sik, we will like to see a higher standard of political discussion in the country.

However, if Liong Sik’s ‘cow-dung counsellors’ want to continue with the MCA-DAP exchanges on ‘cow-dung politics’ in the press, the DAP is prepared to keep company.
 
