+++ 
title: "Liong Sik should keep the Malacca appointment with me on Saturday as he should not be running away from challenges and issues all his political life"
date: "1993-07-08"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lira Kit Siang, in Petaling .Java on Thursday, July 8, 1993:_

# Liong Sik should keep the Malacca appointment with me on Saturday as he should not be running away from challenges and issues all his political life 

MCA President, Dat.uk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, should keep the Malacca appointment with me at the Emperor Hotel on Saturday at 10 a.m. as he should not be running away from challenges and issues all his political life.</u>

The Malacca appointment on Saturday is directly the result of his own challenge that I produce the DAP Save Bukit China accounts within a week. How could he break this appointment after I had accepted his challenge to produce the DAP Save Bukit. China accounts within a week? 

Liong Sik should be more careful about his political reputation or he would be seen as the political leader who is most on the run in Malaysia.

He ran away from the Mata Kuching (now Bagan) parliamentary seat, in Penang in the 1986 general elections when he was going to contest in Penang. He had to flee all the way to Labis Parliamentary seat in Johore to get elected into Parliament the Cabinet based on UMNO's Malay votes although he claims to be the leader of the third largest Chinese political party in the world!

Liong Sik and MCA leaders have been very vocal condemning the Kelantan State Government for its new regulations restricting public sale and consumption of alcohol affecting non-Muslims, but when I invited him and Gerakan President,. Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, to join me in a trip to Kelantan to publicly drink beer to challenge the constitutionality of the regulations, Liong Sik again, ran for cover.

Liong Sik is only giving himself the reputation as the political leader who runs away fro in challenges and issues - including his own challenge - if he reneges and fails to keep the appointment, with me in Malacca on Saturday after I had accepted his challenge to produce the DAP Save Bukit China accounts within a week.

Can Liong Sik explain why he is so frightened to keep the appointment with me in Malacca on Saturday after issuing his challenge? Is it because he could not produce a proper account and statement of his Bolton Finance scandal as well as a string of other MCA scandals?

Kit Siang invites Liong Sik to go up Bukit China on Saturday for the MCA President to repent his role 10 years ago in helping Malacca Chief Minister in trying to destroy Bukit China

If Liong Sik cherishes his own reputation, he would turn up at the Emperor Hotel in Malacca on Saturday at 10 a.m. to meet me. It. is significant that Emperor Hotel is next to Bukit China, the ancient, cemetry hill that Malacca UMNO and the Tan Koon Swan MCA faction (including Ling Liong Sik) had tried to demolish and destroy ten years ago, and was saved through the DAP's Save Bukit China campaign.


Is Liong Sik's guilty past history for his role in the attempt to demolish Bukit China ten years ago another reason for Liong Sik's reluctance to keep the appointment at the Emperor Hotel in Malacca on Saturday?
I  would  issue an additional invitation to Liong Sik, to join me to go up Bukit China on Saturday morning after our meeting at Emperor  Hotel,  where he could repent on his role ten  years  ago in trying to help the Malacca Chief Minister, Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik, to destroy  the  most ancient cemetry hill of the  Chinese  community	in Malaysia.

Liong Sik should therefore tae in Malacca on Saturday not-only with a satisfactory explanation of the Bolton Finance and other MCA scandals, but be prepared to go up Bukit China to repent for his and MCA' s guilty role ten years ago in helping Malacca Chief Minister-in trying to destroy Bukit China.
 
