+++ 
title: "DAP has already sent a bankdraft for RM33,395,44 to Cheng Hoon Teng for the beautification of Bukit China"
date: "1993-07-31"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the Malacca DAP Anniversary Dinner held at Jaws Restaurant, Malacca on Saturday, 31st July 1993 at 7.30 p.m._

# DAP has already sent a bankdraft for RM33,395,44 to Cheng Hoon Teng for the beautification of Bukit China

DAP has already sent a bankdraft for RM33,395,44 to Cheng Hoon Teng for the beautification of Bukit China.

These are the proceeds from the DAP Save-Bukit China and Oppose-RM2 million-Quit Rent-Demand One-Person One-Dollar Fund launched by the DAP on 7th December 1984.</u>

In this One-Person One-Dollar Fund campaign to Save Bukit China and oppose the attempt by the Malacca Chief Minister, Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik, to confiscate Bukit China unless Cheng Hoon Teng pay 32 million for quit rent arid 17 years' arrears within a month, the primary objective was not money - or it would not be a One-Person One-Dollar campaign, but a One-Person-One Hundred-Dollar or One-Person-One Thousand-Dollar campaign

The whole thrust of the the DAP One-Person One-Dollar campaign was to mobilise "People's Power' not only in Malacca, but throughout the country, to oppose the unholy conspiracy between the Malacca Chief Minister, Rahim Tamby Cik, with the MCA faction now represented by the MCA President, Datuk Seri Dr. Ling Liong Sik, to 'demolish' Bukit China to build in its stead a modern commercial complex.

The DAP One-Person One-Dollar Campaign was meant to last for two to three years so that the battle for the defense of a historic and cultural monument, representing not only the roots of the Chinese in Malaysia., but symbolising the 500-year-old Sino-Malay co-operation, would reach into very nook and corner of Malaysia including Sabah and Sarawak.

However, before the DAP One-Person One-Dollar campaign could get into full swing in the various states, the DAP called off the entire campaign on January 2, 1985, in response to the 1985 New Year speech by the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamad, warning that racial polarisation in Malaysia had reached a critical stage.

DAP declared that as a contribution to reducing racial polarisation, which had been aggravated by the attempt of Rahim Tamby Cik to "demolish1 Bukit China in utter disregard of the rights and sensitivities of the Chinese community in Malacca arid Malaysia, we would call off the DAP One-Person One-Dollar campaign, to pave the way for the 'cooling-off' and resolution of the Bukit China controversy.

On 15th February 1985, DAP National Publicity Secretary and National Chairman of the DAP Save-Bukit China Committee, Sdr. Liew Ah Kim, announced that the total sum collected in the three weeks of the DAP One-Person One-Dollar campaign came to RM21,928.50.

We  had  immediately  approached the then  Cheng  Hoon Teng Chairman, the late Ee Yew Lin, to hand over the money, but  he asked the DAP to keep custody of the money until the resolution of the Bukit China quit rent issue with the Malacca State Government.

As I announced, in Malacca on July 12, the sum of money together with interest, now stands at RM33,732.79 as at 15th June 1993.

Following the decision of the DAP Central Executive Committee to donate "these money for the beautification of Bukit, China, the DAP National Treasurer, Sdr. Fung Ket Wing, had sent  a bankdraft of RM33,395.44 to Cheng Hoon Teng, i.e. after deduction of all bank charges, by A,R. Registered two days ago.

The DAP CEC considered a proposal made from outside the Party that we donate the money to Pay Fong Chinese Independent Secondary School in Malacca, the Dong/Zhiao Zhong education fund or Southern College, but we felt that this would be very inappropriate and the money should be used for a purpose related to the perpetuation of Bukit China.

The first of Lionq Sik's three ulterior motives in trying to question the DAP Save-Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund is to blacken or make the people forget the historic memory of the great Save Bukit China campaign

I want to thank the people of Malacca and Malaysia who had participated in the DAP Save Bukit China campaign, whether the One-Person One-Dollar campaign; the 300,000 mass-signature campaign; the weekly Bukit China Walk/Jog in Malacca; the 800-mile Bukit China marathon relay to Bukit China from three points in the country, namely Penang/Kedah, Kuantan and Johore Bahru; the various Save Bukit China cycle-thons held in the various states; etc.

All who had played their part in the DAP Save Bukit China campaign in 1984 had done something they could, be very proud for the rest of their lives and which they could tell their children and grandchildren as concrete proof of their contribution to defend the fundamental citizenship rights of Malaysians.
However there are certain political leaders who want. to blacken or make the people forget this historic memory of the greatest and most successful manifestation of 'People Power1 in saving Bukit China from demolition from the joint conspiracy of the Malacca Chief Minister, Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik and the MCA leadership now represented by Ling Liong Sik.

This is the first of the three ulterior motives of Ling Liong Sik when he challenged me early this month to make public within a week the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund.

Once the historic memory of the people of the great Save Bukit China campaign in 1984 is blackened, or better still, forgotten, then the MCA leadership would find it easier in future to carry out their political plans and designs.

Liong Sik is the MCA President with least respect and support from the Chinese community in MCA history

Furthermore, this historic memory of the people of the great Save Bukit China campaign included the ignominous role played by MCA leaders like Liong Sik ten years ago in aiding and abetting Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik in trying to destroy and demolish Bukit China.

In fact, it can be said that so long as the people remember the great Save Bukit. China struggle and campaign ten years ago, they will remember Liong Sik's role in Rahim Tamby Cik's design to demolish Bukit China, arid there is no way Liong Sik can establish credibility and legitimacy in the Chinese community.

I had declared that I have proof of Liang Sik's conspiracy with Rahim Tamby Cik to demolish Bukit China in 1984 which I would produce if I am challenged by Liang Sik, but the MCA President has suddenly become very 'quiet'.

This is one reason -why Liong Sik has found that he has probably become the MCA President with the least support and respect from the Chinese community in MCA history.

This is also why Liong Sik on the advice of his 'political braintrust’ , decided to blacken and erase the people's historic memory of the Save Bukit China struggle by trying to question the DAP Save-Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund early this month.

However, Liong Sik had succeeded only in reminding t he-people, not. only in Malacca but in Malaysia, of his ignomirious role in Rahim Tamby Cik's attempt ten years ago to -demolish Bukit. China.

This is one important reason why Liong Sik dared not accept my challenge for a 'mutual questioning' session at Emperor Hotel, Malacca on July 12.

This is also the reason why the Malacca MCA leadership, led by MCA Malacca State Chairman, Datuk Gan Boon Leong, who turned up at. Emperor Hotel claiming to represent Liong Sik, dared not stay behind to hear what I have to say. This was because Gan Boon Leong himself, together with others who were with him, like Lim Soo Kiang, Ho Lin Teck and Boon Ah Soo played prominent roles on behalf of Ling Liong Sik in Malacca in 1984 to help Rahim Tamby Cik succeed in his plan to demolish Bukit China.
Lim Soo Kiang was then an Exco member and the people of Malacca can still remember that Boon Ah Soo was publicly assaulted because of his role to help Rahim Tamby Cik demolish Bukit China.

DAP to conduct a year-long nation-wide 10th Save Bukit China struggle anniversary for the young generation to understand the meaning of the historic battle to save the most ancient. Chinese cemetrv hill in Malaysia

DAP CEC has decided to conduct a year-long nation-wide tenth Save Bukit China struggle anniversary for the young generation to understand the meaning of the historic battle to save the most, ancient Chinese cemetry hill in Malaysia.
We must not forget history, or allow anyone to blacken the memory of the historic Save Bukit China campaign ten years ago, or we will just be like giving up our roots, and jeoparidise our rights and those of our future generations in this country.

We believe that the great contributions made by everyone in the Save Bukit China struggle should become the precious memory of the people - in particular, the firm and unyielding stand of the Cheng Hoon Teng Chairman, the- late Ee Yew Lin.

Similarly, the role of the 'villains' in this Bukit China struggle - those who for their own personal and political interests are prepared to go against the entire Chinese community and conspire with Rahim Tamby Cik to demolish Bukit China -should also be remembered .

DAP has set up a national committee to organise the year long 10th Save Bukit China anniversary, which would be launched in October, as it was in October 1983 that Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik took his first step demolish Bukit China.

The DAP 10th Save Bukit. China anniversary organising committee will be headed by Sdr. Liew Ah Kim, who was the Chairman of the Save Bukit China National Committee in 1984, with DAP Malacca State Chairman, Sim Tong Hin as Deputy Chairman. Other members are:

Secretary: Kerk Kim Hock
Asst.  Secretary:  Yew Kok Kee
Members:  Dr. Tail Seng Giaw
	Ahmad Nor
	Lee Ban Chen
	P. Patto
	Dr. Kua Kia Soong
	Li in Guan Eng
	Loke Swee Chin
	S.K. Song
	Lee Yuen Pony
	Fung Kui Loon
	Tan Kok Wai

Tonight, I will talk only about the first of the three-ulterior motives of Liong Sik in trying to question the DAP's Save-Bukit One-Person One-Dollar Fund. I will talk about Liong Sik's second ulterior motive at the Bentong DAP Anniversary dinner in Ben-tong tomorrow night.
 
