+++ 
title: "I will give Dr. Kang Chin Seng a special lecture at the Penang State Assembly nest week so that he could understand that thee is no inconsistency or contradiction I Penang DAP’s stand on the increase in the number of State Assembly seats"
date: "1993-06-16"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Wednesday, 16th June, 1993:_

# I will give Dr. Kang Chin Seng a special lecture at the Penang State Assembly nest week so that he could understand that thee is no inconsistency or contradiction I Penang DAP’s stand on the increase in the number of State Assembly seats

Penang Gerakan State Exco member, Dr. Kang Chin Seng issued a statement yesterday repeating the Penang State Government’s accusation that the Penang DAP Assemblymen had been inconsistent and contradictory in our stand on the increase in the number of State Assembly seats for Penang.</u>

Dr. Kang Chin Seng is clearly trying to defend the Penang Deputy Chief Minister, Dr. Ibrahim Saad, from my criticisms for his statements that he is ‘confused’ by the Penang DAP stand on the issue – suggesting an increase of eleven State Assembly seats in last November’s State Assembly special sitting and now proposing a private member’s bill to increase six state assembly seats for Penang.

I had responded to Dr. Ibrahim Saad’s statement declaring that either he had made a dishonest statement in claiming to be ‘confused’ or he is not fit for any high political office if he could be so ‘confused’.

Dr. Ibrahim Saad is smart in not replying to me – instead we have Dr. Kang Chin Seng ‘coming to the rescue’ of Dr. Ibrahim Saad!

Unfortunately, Dr. Kang Chin Seng has only betrayed his ignorance of the whole matter. I shall be very patient with Dr. Kang and give him a special lecture at the Penang State Assembly next week so that he could understand that there is no inconsistency or contradiction in Penang DAP’s stand on the increase of State Assembly seats in Penang.

However, having watched Dr. Kang Chin Seng in the Penang State Assembly for the past 32 months, I am not sure he would be a good student.

I have observed that in the State Assembly, Dr. Kang Chin Seng is very frightened of allowing interruptions for clarifications by DAP State Assemblymen – which shows that he has no confidence in his own arguments. In order to justify his reluctance to agree to give way to DAP State Assemblymen, he is also very frightened of interrupting DAP State Assemblymen to seek clarifications.

A person who is afraid to ask and to learn cannot be a good student but I am prepared to make another effort to ‘educate’ Dr. Kang Chin Seng in the State Assembly next week.
 
