+++ 
title: "Call on ACA Director-General Tan Sri Zulkifli Mahmood to give reasons for the three-month silence, about the outcome of investigations into Samy Vellu and the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal?"
date: "1993-03-06"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, 6th March 1993_:

# Call on ACA Director-General Tan Sri Zulkifli Mahmood to give reasons for the three-month silence, about the outcome of investigations into Samy Vellu and the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal?

I said yesterday that the constitutional crisis over the removal of the Rulers’ immunity in the past three months had allowed many Ministers and government leaders to evade close scrutiny and accountability for their negligence, incompetence, abuses of power and malpractices.</u>

One such example is the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandals. I call on the Anti-Corruption Agency Director-General, Tan Sri Zulkifli Mahmood, to explain the reasons for the three-month silence about the outcome of investigations into the MIC President and Minister for Energy, Telecommunications and Posts, Datuk Seri S. Samy Vellu and the $120 million MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal.

On 11th December 1992, the Attorney-General, Tan Sri Abu Talib Othman, said he had directed the Anti-Corruption Agency (ACA) to speed up its investigations into the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal, where nine million Telekom shares meant for the Indian community through MAIKA Holdings were hijacked by three companies, namely Advance Personal Computers Sdn. Bhd, S.B. Management Services Bhd. and Clearway Sdn. Bhd.

Tan Sri Abu Talib had said then that the ACA had briefed him on its investigations from time to time but he had yet to receive the final report, and that it was up to him to decide whether or not there was a case for prosecutions.

In response to the Attorney-General’s statement, an ACA spokesman said that the ACA would complete its full investigations in two months’ time after it had interviewed the former Finance Minister, Tun Daim Zainuddin, the present Finance Minister, Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim and Finance Ministry officials involved with the allocation of the ten million Telekom shares to MAIKA Holdings in 1990.

The last that the public heard about the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal is the statement by Anwar Ibrahim declaring his willingness to co-operate with the ACA with regard to its investi-gations into the MAIKA Telikom shares hijacking scandal.

After that, there had been total silence for three as month – if the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal had never occurred and the ACA had never conducted any investigations into it.

The three-month silence on the outcome of ACA investiga¬tions into the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal has become a great mystery.

The Malaysian public are entitled to know what is happening with regard to the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal investigations, and those responsible, whether Tan Sri Zulkifli Mahmood or Tan Sri Abu Talib Othman, should discharge their duties of public accountability and enlighten the public by providing the answers to the following questions:

1.	Has the ACA interviewed Daim Zainuddin and Anwar Ibrahim?
2.	Has the ACA completed its investigations into Samy Vellu and the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal, and submitted its final report to the Attorney-General?
3.	What is the recommendation of the ACA in its final report to the Attorney-General as a result of its investigations into the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal?
4.	What is the decision of the Attorney-General - to prosecute or to drop the entire case?
 
