+++ 
title: "If there is a law on mischief in lodging police reports, the 12 MCA Malacca leaders would be the first to be prosecuted for yesterday must the eighth or ninth time that the MCA had lodged police reports against, the DAP Save Bukit China Fund in the last seven years"
date: "1993-07-17"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, 17th July 1993;_

# If there is a law on mischief in lodging police reports, the 12 MCA Malacca leaders would be the first to be prosecuted for yesterday must the eighth or ninth time that the MCA had lodged police reports against, the DAP Save Bukit China Fund in the last seven years

If there is a law on mischief in lodging police reports, the 12 MCA Malacca leaders who lodged, a police report, yesterday would be the first to be prosecuted for theirs must be the eighth or ninth time that the MCA had lodged police reports against the DAP Save Bukit China Fund in the last seven years.</u>

The 12 Malacca MCA leaders knew that the MCA had over the years lodged at least seven or eight police reports against, the DAP Save Bukit China Fund, but yet they went through the charade of lodging another police report against the DAP Save Bukit China Fund just to get cheap publicity.

When I accepted the challenge by the MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, to announce the DAP Save-Bukit China and Oppose-$2 million-Quit. Rent One-Person One-Dollar Fund (which had in fact been announced many times previously) in Malacca on July 10, 1993, I had expected Liong Sik to come with questions about, the various DAP Save-Bukit, China functions.

But Liong Sik dared not come, knowing that the DAP is a clean political party which is completely different from MCA, which is; pockmarked with endless financial scandals, whether of the MCA or of MCA leaders - including Liong Sik's Bolton Finance scandal.

If the Malacca MCA leaders were so confident of the questions they have raised about the various DAP Save Bukit China functions, they would have showed Liong Sik's famous 'art of patience', waited for me to finish my explanation and raised all these queries.

However, the MCA leaders know that these queries about the various DAP Save Bukit China functions are only good for press releases, but not for a 'mutual questioning1 between Liong Sik and me.

In fact, I had been waiting for Liong Sik to personally adopt these queries which had been raised by the Malacca MCA leaders in the last few days, and which, form the basis of their eighth or ninth MCA police report, against the DAP, before the DAP gives any reply.

I am hoping to use Malacca MCA as 'bait' to hook a big fish - Ling Liong Sik - to continue to personally challenge the DAP Save Bukit Fund

I had hoped to use the 'Malacca MCA as ‘bait’ to hook a big fish, i.e. Ling Liong Sik, to continue to personally challenge the DAP Save Bukit China Fund. This is why I had instructed the Malacca DAP to ignore the Malacca MCA until time had been given to the MCA President to personally adopt, these Malacca MCA arguments.

It would appear that Liong Sik has become wiser after the first 'Lim Kit Siang-Ling Liong Sik mutual questioning’.

However, I would give Liong Sik the final 24 hours to decide whether he is going to pursue the Bukit China issue with the DAP, or he has already abandoned the battlefield and thrown in his 'white flag of surrender', leaving to his subordinates including the 'picture-holder' to "clear the debris'.

MCA leaders must be very immature to think that by lodging police reports against the DAP on the same subject ten or twenty times, they can make the people believe that the DAP leaders are like MCA leaders who could not be trusted with public funds.

If there is any basis to MCA allegation of criminal breach of trust in DAP Save Bukit. China Fund, there would be no need for the MCA to lodge eight or nine police reports in the past seven years

The people's eyes are very clear and they can think for themselves. They know that DAP and its leaders cannot, afford, to make any mistakes - for if there is the slightest infraction, including financial, the full weight of the law would be brought down on the DAP and its leaders as no mercy whatsoever would be shown by the Barisan Na s iona1 Government.

It is a different story with the MCA and its leaders where the law are used to hide and protect MCA financial scandals.

MCA leaders had been in the thick of numerous financial scandals, like the Pan El scandal of former MCA President, Tan Koon Swan and the Co-operative Finance scandals, but how many MCA leaders had been jailed and punished for their crimes? Tan Koon Swan would never have been charged in Malaysia if he had not been .charged and jailed in Singapore first! Malaysians can still remember that when Koon Swan was first arrested and charged in Singapore, MCA leaders like Liong Sik gave him a "hero's welcome" when he returned to the Subang International Airport.

If there is any basis to the >JCA allegations of criminal breach of trust in the DAP Save Bukit China fund, there is no need for the MCA to lodge eight or nine police reports on the same subject in the last seven years. After the first MCA police report, on the matter seven years ago, the police would have arrested and imprisoned DAP leaders already!

This is why I had said that if Liong Sik dare to say publicly that he is not satisfied with my announcement of the Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund in Malacca last Saturday, I would arrange for a second 'Lim Kit Siang-Ling Liong Sik mutual questioning' in Malacca within a week, where he could raise all the issues which the Malacca MCA had raised in the past few days.

But Liong Sik seems to have reached a stage where he dare not even mutter publicly that he is not satisfied with my announcement of the Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund last Saturday.
 
