+++ 
title: "Kit Siang proposes four dates for the ‘Three Lim’ beer session in Kota Bahru"
date: "1993-07-06"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Tuesday, July 6, 1993:_

# Kit Siang proposes four dates for the ‘Three Lim’ beer session in Kota Bahru

Yesterday, I renewed my invitation to Gerakan President, Datuk Dr.Lim Keng Yaik and the MCA President, Datuk Dr.Ling Liong Sik, to join me in a trip to Kelantan to drink beer publicly to demonstrate that the DAP, Gerakan and MCA can take a united stand in opposing the new regulation of the Kelantan State Government restricting the public sale and consumption of alcohol involving non-Muslims starting from July 1 in breach of the assurance of the Kelantan Mentri Besar, Nik Aziz Mat himself.</u>

It has been reported that NMCA is organising a massive liquor drinking party in Kota Bahru after a small liquor drinking party a few days ago. I would advise MCA to be careful in its campaign to oppose the new Kelantan State Government regulations. It does not matter if the other communities have a wrong impression about MCA, but it would be unfortunate and undesirable if the other communities have a wrong and bad impression of the Chinese community as encouraging liquor consumption and drunkards.

The focus of the campaign should not be on alcohol or encouragement of liquor consumption, but on the right of the Chinese and non-Muslims to decide on the question of alcohol without having any Islamic law or regulation forced on them which would undermine the entire secular basis of Malaysian nation-building.

The campaign should focus on three issues: Firstly, that new regulations is an infringement of the rights and way of life of the Chinese and non-Muslims in Kelantan.

Secondly, that it is a dangerous precedent which would lead to other regulations undermining and infringing non-Muslim rights and way of life in the country.

Thirdly, the breach of the solemn undertaking given by the Kelantan Mentri Besar to DAP leaders in Kota Bahru on January 28, 1992 that the status quo for the public sale and consumption of alcohol would be maintained.

The proposal of a ‘Three Lim’ beer session in Kota Bahru would make the important point of challenging the new Kelantan State regulations restricting public sale and consumption of alcohol from the standpoint of infringement of non-Muslim rights and way of life, without giving the impression that there is a massive campaign encouraging alcoholic consumption and drunkards.

The public beer-drinking session therefore should be kept very small, although I have no objection if lawyers from each party are present. My offer yesterday that the DAP will provide free legal services to Keng Yaik and Liong Sik if action is taken against them for drinking beer publicly in Kota Bahru still stands however.

I am giving Keng Yaik ang Liong Sik four dates for the ‘Three Lim’ beer drinking session in Kota Bahru, namely anyone of the next four Sundays, i.e. July11, 18, 25, or August 1.

I hope Keng Yaik and Liong Sik would respond positively to my renewed invitation to them to join me in a trip to Koat Bahru for a public beer-drinking session. The DAP is prepared to pay for the airfares for Keng Yaik and Liong Sik if this is needed.
 
