+++ 
title: "DAP calls on Ghani Othman to give the full details as to the total costs of construction of the new Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Sepang"
date: "1993-08-09"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Monday, August 9 , 1993:_

# DAP calls on Ghani Othman to give the full details as to the total costs of construction of the new Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Sepang

Deputy Finance Minister, Datuk Ghani Othman, said in Kangar yesterday that the government will ensure that bumiputera contractors are also involved in the construction of Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Sepang.</u>

He told the Perlis branch of the Malaysia Malay Chamber of Commerce that his Ministry was working out a package valued between RM300 million to RM400 million for offer to bumiputera contractors and that levelling of land for the KLIA would begin soon .

I call on Datuk Ghani Othman to give the full details of the total costs of construction of the new Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA) in Sepang.

During the debate on the 1993 supplementary supply in the Dewan Rakyat last month, I queried about the civil works which is valued at RM1.4 billion. I said that this was on the high side even taking into consideration the Peat Soil conditions at KLIA, as it works out to the rate of RM21 per cubic meter for the earthworks. This is more than 13 times the current rate in Kuala Lumpur by local contractors at about RM1.60 per cubic meter.

In his reply on 28th July 1993, Datuk Ghani Othman said that the earthworks at KLIA would be divided into various packages.

He said: “ Pada masa ini pra-kelayakan kontraktor hampir disiapkan dan keputusannya akan dibuat dalam masa dua minggu lagi. Kontraktor-kontraktor yang berkelayakan kan dipilih untuk menjalankan kerja-kerja tanah ini.

“Mengenai kadar harga, kadar RM21 satu meter padu merupakan anggaran awal, “all-in-rate” bagi kerja tanah yang merangkumi kos bagi memotong bukit mengeluarkan tanah lembut, menimbun dan menjalankan kerja-kerja pemulihan tanah. Di Sepang itu, da bahagian0bahagian di mana tanahnya perlu digali dan ditimbun balik, kesesuaian tanah
Perlu dibuat kajian terperinci. Harga RM1.60 per satu meter padu yang disebutkan bagi kadar di kawasan Kuala Lumpur adalah harga untuk memotong tanah sahaja.

“Walau bagaimanapun, kadar harga sebenarnya untuk kerja-kerja tanah akan diketahui selepas proses tender selesai nanti.”

DAP wishes to give notice that we will be following closely every phase of the tender and construction of the new RM20 billion Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Sepang, and to demand regular reporting every time Parliament meets, to ensure that in such a mammoth project, malpractices and abuses are cut down to the minimum.
 
