+++ 
title: "Liong Sik made his greatest political misjudgment and error since becoming MCA President when he tried to question the DAP Save-Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund"
date: "1993-08-06"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliament Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the Bakri DAP Branch Anniversary dinner in Muar, Johore on Friday, 6th August 1993 at 8 p.m._

# Liong Sik made his greatest political misjudgment and error since becoming MCA President when he tried to question the DAP Save-Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund

MC President, Datuk Ling Liong Sik, had three motives in trying to question the DAP Save-Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund.</u>

Firstly, to blacken or make the people forget the historic memory of the people of the successful Save Bukit China campaign ten years ago.

Secondly, to conduct a character-assassination campaign against me personally, trying to suggest that DAP leaders are the same as MCA leaders who have many financial scandals, whether personal or party.

Thirdly, to destroy the public reputation, credibility and integrity of DAP by bringing ir down to the level of the MCA – which MCA leaders acknowledge do not enjoy any good public standing whatsoever.

However, Liong Sik immediately discovered that he had made his greatest political misjudgement and error in his seven years as MCA President when he challenged me to announce the details of the DAP Save-Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund within a week, for I accepted his challenge without hesitation and invited him to a public ‘mutual questioning’ in Malacca on July 10.

When Liong Sik dared not turn up at the Malacca ‘mutual questioning’ on July 10, which was the direct result of his open challenge, the entire three-point MCA campaign against DAP and DAP leaders simply collapsed for lack of credibility.

Liong Sik committed his greatest political misjudgment and error as MCA President in questioning on the DAP Save-Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund for two reasons:

Firstly, the DAP Save- Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund is open and above-board unlike the numerous MCA financial scandals, including Liong Sik’s own Bolton Finance scandal. In fact, in February 1985, the DAP National Save-Bukit China Committee had already announced details of the DAP One-Person One-Dollar Fund when this campaign was called off on January 2, 1985.

The Save Bukit China spirit must be immortalised so that such a national spirit can successful defend the people’s basic fundamental rights in future


Secondly, the publicity generated by Liong Sik’s challenge and his cowardly conduct in not turning up for the ‘mutual questioning’ in Malacca had re-opened public memory of the great and successful Save Bukit China campaign a decade ago.

In fact, I want to publicly thank Liong Sik for giving the DAP the idea to organise nation-wide year-long celebrations to commemorate the great DAP Save Bukit China campaign beginning in October this year. DAP wants Malaysians to immortalise the Spirit of Save Bukit China, for with such a spirit, they can successfully defend their basic fundamental rights for all time.

The DAP will make use of the next two months to finalise our collection of evidence to prove that Liong Sik was directly involved in the conspiracy with the Malacca Chief Minister, Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik, to demolish Bukit China in Malacca ten years ago. 

Call on Liong Sik to publicly confess and apologise for his role ten years ago in conspiring with Rahim Tamby Cik to demolish Bukit China


Of course, if Liong Sik will publicly confess that he was in cahoots with Rahim Tamby Cik in the conspiracy to demolish Bukit China ten years ago, then there is no need for the DAP to continue to accumulate proof.

I will therefore call on Liong Sik to publicly confess and apologise for his role ten years ago in conspiring with Rahim Tamby Cik to demolish Bukit China.

If after 48 years, the Japanese Government can publicly admit and apologise for the great wrongs committed against the tens of thousands of sex slaves of the Japanese Imperialist Army in the Second World War, there is no reason why Liong Sik cannot publicly admit and apologise for his role in the conspiracy with Tan Sri Rahim Tmby Cik to demolish Bukit China ten years ago.

To give Liong Sik the chance to publicly admit and apologise for his role in the conspiracy of Rahim Tamby Cik to demolish Bukit China ten years ago, I am directing DAP researchers to immediately halt for one week the search for proof of Liong Sik’s role in the ‘Demolish Bukit China’ conspiracy.

If in the next seven days Liong Sik does not show any repentance, remorse or prepared to publicly admit and apologise for his role in the Rahim Tamby Cik conspiracy to demolish Bukit China, then the DAP researches will continue their search and I will produce the proof in October at the launching-off of the nation-wide 10th Anniversary DAP Save Bukit China Campaign commemoration activities.
 
