+++ 
title: "DAP warns the Police not to allow irresponsible groups with ulterior motives behind the anti-Sultan of Kelantan public rally in Kota Bahru tomorrow to create. conditions for the Federal Government to declare  emergency and NOC rule in Kelantan."
date: "1993-04-09"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-Genera and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Saturday, April 9 1993:_

# DAP warns the Police not to allow irresponsible groups with ulterior motives behind the anti-Sultan of Kelantan public rally in Kota Bahru tomorrow to create. conditions for the Federal Government to declare  emergency and NOC rule in Kelantan.

DAP warns the Police not to allow irresponsible groups with ulterior motives behind the anti-Sultan of Kelantan public rally in Kota Bahru tomorrow to create conditions for the Federal Government to declare are an emergency and NOC (National Operations Council) rule in Kelantan.</u>

If such a situation takes place, then Malaysians and the world will see the real hand pulling the political strings behind the anti-Sultan of Kelantan public rally tomorrow.

Despite the denial of UMNO Baru role in the anti-Sultan of Kelantan public rally, the prominent role played by the Minister for Youth and Sports, Annuar Musa, in announcing the public rally and giving assurances that "there would be no untoward incident" reveals who is really behind the public rally tomorrow.

Overtly, the public rally tomorrow is being organised in the name of the Confederation of Associations of over 20 organisations in	Kelantan claiming 30,000	members.
However, the Chairman of the Confederation Yusof Ahmad, had made an announcement after chairing a committee a meeting yesterday, dissociating the Confederation and its affiliate members from the anti-Sultan of Kelantan public rally tomorrow.

Yusuf said in kota Bahru yesterday "We had decided when we formed the confederation that we will not be -used by any political parties or individuals for political purposes and we view the gathering as being politically motivatied."

Yusuf also announced that the Confederation committee at its meeting yesterday expelled its Secretary, Azhar Mohamed Rani, who had committed the confederation to the anti-Sultan of Kelantan public rally tomorrow.

In these circumstances, how could the Police give police permit for the anti-Sultan of Kelantan public rally - unless the Police had no choice on the matter, having taking directives from the UMNO Baru leaders!
 
