+++ 
title: "I will give time for Liong Sik to pluck up the courage to attend the ‘Kit Siang-Liong Sik mutual verification’ appointment at Bukit China in Malacca, which will be held on the seventh day from Liong Sik’s acceptance of the appointment"
date: "1994-08-17"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Wednesday, 17th August 1994:_

# I will give time for Liong Sik to pluck up the courage to attend the ‘Kit Siang-Liong Sik mutual verification’ appointment at Bukit China in Malacca, which will be held on the seventh day from Liong Sik’s acceptance of the appointment

From his remarks after the MCA Presidential Council meeting yesterday, it is clear that the MCA President, Datuk Seri Dr. Ling Liong Sik still dare not declare that he would attend the ‘Kit Siang-Liong Sik mutual verification’ appointment at Bukit China in Malacca.</u>

The ‘Kit Siang-Liong Sik mutual verification’ appointment at Bukit China in Malacca was my counter-challenge to Liong Sik, who had challenged me for the second time to produce the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar account within a week.

I had accepted Liong Sik’s second challenge provided he declared within three days that he would attend the ‘Kit Siang-Liong Sik mutual verification’ appointment at Bukit China, where Liong Sik could raise any questions about the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Account or any other DAP account, but where Liong Sik must be prepared to answer all my questions about the various MCA account, MCA scandals including his own Bolton Finance scandal.

In particular, Liong Sik must attend the ‘Two Lim mutual verification’ appointment to clear all doubts and questions about the honesty, integrity and accountability of MCA Chinese Independent Secondary Schools donation drive, especially after the expose of the MCA Jempol Division donation scandal when the MCA kept 75 per cent of the donations while handing out only 25 per cent of the donations to the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

What is ther for ‘mutual verification’ in the ‘Two Lim mutual verification’ appointment at Bukit China in Malacca if one of the two Lims dare not turn up?

I will give time for Liong Sik to pluck up the courage to attend the ‘Kit Siang-Liong Sik mutual verification’ appointment in Bukit China in Malacca, which will held on the seventh day from Liong Sik’s acceptance of the appointment.

DAP has nothing to hide and there is nothing improper in the DAP Save Bukit China One-person One-Dollar Account, except in the minds of Liong Sik and MCA leaders.

However, in the minds of the Chinese community and the Malaysian people, they know that the MCA teems with financial improprieties and scandals – and this is why Liong Sik must have the courage to attend the ‘Two Lim mutual verification’ appointment in Bukit China.

Yesterday, for instance, I challege the MCA to institute legal proceedings against me within three days for my expose of the MCA Jempol MCA Division donation scandal where the MCA kept 75 per cent of donations collected in the name of Chinese Independent Secondary Schools while handing over 25 per cent to the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

It is true that the sum involved is not a big one, as MCA Jempol Division collected RM25, 700 and handed over RM6,300 to the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

But this becomes a big issue if this is the manner in which the MCA is conducting its nation-wide donation drive for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

My three-day challenge to MCA to institute legal action against me expires on Friday and I look forward to the MCA legal actions!

DAP calls on the Chinese community to give full support to the MCA Chinese Independent Secondary Schools, donation drive provided it is not a MCA Jempol Division style of donation drive

What is most significant in the past two weeks is that the MCA leadership has thoroughly failed to give a satisfactory explanation on the three items of its nation-wide donation drive for Chiese Independent Secondary Schools, and the statement by the MCA National Vice chairman, Lim Ah Lem, is no different.

The DAP has not objected and will never sabotage MCA’s donation drive for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

In fact, I call on the Chinese community to give full support to the MCA donation drive for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools,  provided they impress on the MCA two important points:

		*firstly, the MCA donation drive must not be the MCA Jempol Division style of donation, where the MCA keeps 75 per cent of all donations while giving only 25 per cent of the donations to Chinese Independent Secondary Schools; and

		* Secondly, that MCA’s primary duty with four Ministers is not get donations from the Chinese community, but to get regular annual financial allocations from the Cabinet, for the 60 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in the country.

 
