+++ 
title: "Penang DAP Assemblymen will support the creation of the post of Deputy Speaker and there is no need for Dr. Koh Tsu Koon to complain to other Barisan Nasional Mentris Besar and Chief Ministers about the DAP being 'very aggressive' in Penang Assembly"
date: "1994-06-29"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Wednesday, June 29, 1994:_

# Penang DAP Assemblymen will support the creation of the post of Deputy Speaker and there is no need for Dr. Koh Tsu Koon to complain to other Barisan Nasional Mentris Besar and Chief Ministers about the DAP being 'very aggressive' in Penang Assembly

		Penang DAP Assemblymen will support the creation of the post of Deputy Speaker for Penang State Assembly, including the amendment of the Penang State Constitution to provide for such a new post.</u>

		Trengganu Mentri Besar, Tan Sri Haji Wan Mochhtar Ahmad said in Miri yesterday that a meeting of Mentris Besar and Chief Ministers had agreed that the post of Deputy Speaker be created in all State Legislative Assemblies to provide for smoother proceedings.

		Wan Mokhtar said this was among the matters decided at the 28th meeting of Mentris Besar and Chief Ministers in Miri although the decision would take time to be implemented as it involved the amendment of the State Constitutions.

		Wan Mokhtar also said that the proceedings of certain State Assemblies with a high number of opposition members were found to be "very aggressive" and could complicate moves to create this post if it was to be implemented on an ad hoc basis.

		Penang DAP Assemblymen can assure the Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon that they will support whatever is good and sensible, and that they will vote for the creation of a Deputy Speaker in the Penang State Assembly.

		There is no need for Dr. Koh to complain to the other Barisan Nasional Mentris Besar and Chief Ministers about the DAP Assemblymen being "very aggressive" in the Penang State Assembly, as Dr. Koh seems to be seeking the sympathy and encouragement of the other Barisan Nasional Mentris Besar and Chief Ministers in having to face the DAP Assemblymen.

		It must be very demeaning and humiliating not only for Dr. Koh Tsu Koon, but for the people of Penang, that the Penang Chief Minister should be complaining to the other Barisan Nasional Mentris Besar and Chief Ministers about the hard time he is having in the Penang State Assembly.
 
