+++ 
title: "Tsu Koon has eaten Sydney Sunday Telegraph in making an even more preposterous allegation that foreign media are bribing Opposition politicians in Malaysia"
date: "1994-01-29"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader , DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung , Lim Kit Siang , in Petaling Jaya on Saturday , 29th  January 1994:_

# Tsu Koon has eaten Sydney Sunday Telegraph in making an even more preposterous allegation that foreign media are bribing Opposition politicians in Malaysia

The Penang Chief Minister Dr. Koh Tsu Koon , has beaten Sydney Sunday Telegraph in making an even more preposterous allegation than the one carried by the Australian Sunday newspaper on January 16 that Australian spies had recruited and bribed Opposition politicians and MPs in Malaysia.</u>

Dr Koh Tsu Koon said yesterday that “some foreign government agencies and press may have benn giving financial support to certain opposition politicians to carry out anti-government activities with the aim of embarrassing Malaysian leaders”.

He even called for investigate into his preposterous allegation that foreign media might be bribing Opposition politicians in Malaysia.

It is most fortunate that Dr. Koh Tsu Koon is not a journalist , or the Malaysian newspaper would put the Sunday Sydney Telegraph or scheme in carrying the most preposterous and unsubstantiated allegations!

By making this most preposterous allegation that foreign media might be bribing opposition politicians in Malaysia, tsu Koon is casting aspersions not only on the integrity of foreign correspondents , but also on Opposition leaders in Malaysia.

Tsu Koon should have the courage to name the foreign correspondents who are giving bribes and the Opposition leaders who are receiving bribes or he should retract his allegation and make a public apology.

Tsu Koon ‘s attempt to exploit and capitalize on the Australian report of the preposterous allegation that Australian spies had bribed Opposition politicians is the worst form of irresponsible politicking in recent years.

DAP calls on all Malaysian political leaders , whether in Government or opposition to always put national interest above party or self – interest .

When Australian Prime Minister , Paul Keating , insulted the Prime Miniter , Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir , calling him recalcitrant for not attending the APEC summit in Seattle , the DAP fully backed Dr. Mahathir because this was a national issue which transcends political parties.

I would expect a similar approach to the preposterous allegation that Australian spies have recruited and bribed opposition politicians in Malaysia , for this concerned not only the integrity of opposition politicians , but the Malaysian Parliament and the good name of the country as well.

If it is true that there are opposition politicians who had been on the payroll of Australian spies , they are traitors to the country and must face the full rigours of the law and be removed from the political scene. This applies to all politicians , whether from the opposition or the ruling party.

If these allegations are not substantiated, then it is not only the good name and reputation of opposition politicians which had been tarnished , but that of the Malaysian nation as well, and all political leades irrespective of party affiliation should stand as one to demand a public retraction and apology from the Australian Government.

Let all Malaysian political leaders prove that on matters affecting the national interests we have, the maturity and patriotism to transcend political differences and not play politics!

The Inspector  General of police , Tan Sri Abdul Rahim Mohammad Noor, said yesterday that the Police are investigating the allegation of Sydney Sunday Telegraph and it would decide whether to ask for Australia’ s co-operation investigating the matter.

I welcome the Police ‘s concern over the issue and fully support a full investigation into the allegation . However I will like to know the Police is going to investigate into the allegation if there is no co-operation from Australian whatsoever?

Mahathir should ask Paul Keating to make available all ASIS agents to Malaysia to help in the investigations

Without Australian co-operation , no investigation by the Malaysian Police or Government would be able to get off the ground.

This is why at the meeting with the Australian High Commissioner, John Dauth yesterday , DAP leaders asked the Australian Government to offer all assistance to investigate into the allegation , including making available all Australian Secret Intelligence Service (ASIS) agents.

DAP suggests that Dr Mahathir ask the Australian Prime Minister , Paul Keating to make available all ASIS agents present or former , to help in investigate into the allegation , whether by the Malaysian Police , a Commision of inquiry or a Parliamentary Committee Of Inquiry.

If the ASIS ex-agents are prepared to reveal information to Sydney Sunday Telegraph about  the alleged bribery of opposition politicians by Australian spies , there is no reason why these ASIS ex-agents should withhold information if the Australian Government gives approval to them to make public all they know about the bribery of Malaysian politicians.

The Australian Prime Minister must be told that if the Australian Government is not prepared to co-operation with Malaysia to establish the truth of the Sydney Sunday Telegraph report , it must bear all responsibility for souring the bilateral relations between the two countries.
 
