+++ 
title: "Police should explain who would want to kill the 15-year-old girl that the police had to give her protection even from her family members."
date: "1994-09-10"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, September 10, 1994:_

# Police should explain who would want to kill the 15-year-old girl that the police had to give her protection even from her family members.

The grandmother of the 15-year-old girl who is in police custody over an alleged affair with Malacca Chief Minister, Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik spoke for all Malaysians when she rapped the authorities for allowing Rahim to leave the country.</u>

Pendek Ahmad, 57, of Sungai Petai in Alor Gajah had the full sympathy and support of all Malaysians, particularly parents with children, when she said yesterday that Rahim should be restrained from leaving the country as he was the main suspect in the investigations into the alleged affair.

Pendek Ahmad had made a completely unanswerable case when she said that it was ironical that her granddaughter was not-allowed to move freely while the main suspect was allowed to go on a holiday abroad.

This is gross in justice to the 15-year-old girl, and I call on all women organisations - including Wanita    UMNO and Wanita wings of all political parties - to come forward to take lip the cause of the 15-year-old girl for justice.

Wanita DAP is prepared to form a united front with Wanita UMNO, Wanita MCA, Wanita Gerakan and  all other women organisations to provide protection and support to the 15-year-old girl to ‘ensure’ that she is not victimised and sacrificed in some big ‘power play’ to serve the political interests of powerful politicians.

Pendek Ahmad said yesterday that police told her when she met her granddaughter at Bukit Aman on Thursday that her granddaughter was under police custody for fear that she might be killed.

The Police should explain who would want to kill the 15-year-old girl that the police had to give her protection even from her family members?

Is the Police suggesting that Tam Sri Rahim Tamby Cik is so desperate that the life of the 15-year-old girl is in real danger?

If this is the case, isn’t it an additional reason to detain Rahim Tamby Cik for purposes of investigation, instead of detaining the victim?
 
