+++ 
title: "All-Party Parliamentary Committee on Parliamentary Honour and National Integrity calls on Dr. Mahathir to declare the government stand on the London Sunday Times report about bribery of Malaysian politicians with regard to aluminium smelter contact"
date: "1994-02-22"
tags:
+++

_By Chairman of All-Party Parliamentary Committee on Parliamentary Honour and National Integrity, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Tuesday, February 22, 1994:_

# All-Party Parliamentary Committee on Parliamentary Honour and National Integrity calls on Dr. Mahathir to declare the government stand on the London Sunday Times report about bribery of Malaysian politicians with regard to aluminium smelter contact

The All-party Parliamentary Committee on PARLIAMENTARY Honour and National Integrity calls on the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, to declare the government stand on the latest allegation from the British mass media about bribery of Malaysian government politicians.</u>

The London Sunday Times report on Sunday alleged that the British construction giant, WIMPEY, was involved in “special payments” to politicians in Malaysia at the highest level in pursuit of a 615 million pound sterling building contract for an aluminium melter.

The London Sunday Times alleged that documents it had obtained showed initial payment of 50,000 dollars (RM30, 000) approved for payment to a middleman who was to pay it into Swiss accounts for a team of politicians in Malaysia. However, although WIMPEY was given the impression that the money would be paid to very high political levels in Malaysia, it did not get the contract after the payment.

It is very disturbing that so many allegations have surfaced in the British mass media about corruption and bribery involving Malaysian political leaders in government.

The Malaysian Cabinet cannot continue to keep a silence on these allegations which gravely affect the credibility, honour and integrity of Malaysia in the international community.

The Malaysian Cabinet at its regularly weekly meeting tomorrow should resolve to give full co-operation to the All-Party Parliamentary Committee on Parliamentary Honour and National Integrity so that Malaysians and the world can know the full facts about these numerous allegations in the British mass media n the past two months about bribery and corruption of Malaysians political leaders involving business deals in Malaysia.

Recently, the Anti-Corruption Agency said that it was aware of corruption involving Malaysians being transacted in foreign counties.

Has the ACA set up a special investigations unit to probe the numerous allegations of bribery and corruption concerning Malaysian political leaders which had surfaced in the British mass media in the past two months?
 
