+++ 
title: "Dr. Kang Chin seng masterminded the Gerakan ‘s poster campaign hoping to take revenge for his humiliation in 1990 when his pet project against the DAP made him a rat running across the street in his own party"
date: "1994-01-18"
tags:
+++

_Speech ( part 2) by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, at the DAP Tanjung 3 Committee meeting held at Penang DAP hqrs on Tuesday , 18th January 1994 at 830 am._

# Dr. Kang Chin seng masterminded the Gerakan ‘s poster campaign hoping to take revenge for his humiliation in 1990 when his pet project against the DAP made him a rat running across the street in his own party

Dr Kang Chin Seng mastermined the penang Gerakan 10000 ugly inauspicious black and white poster campaign of lies against the DAP.</u>

He did this to take revenge , because in 1990 . his pet project to get the Gerakan President , Datuk Lim keng Yaik to tell a big lie about the DAP not only failed , but boomeranged , bringing shame and humalition to the entire Gerakan leadership and membership on the eve of the previous general elections.

On 22rd April 1990 , Keng Yaik alleged at the Selangor Gerakan State Assembly that there was a secret DAP – PAS meeting in Jakarta and promised to produce proof if this was denied by the DAP.

The DAP immediately denied that there was a DAP- PAS meeting in Jaakrta and I challenged Keng Yaik to produce the proof he promised within 48 hours , but the gerakan President was unable to do so.

I next challenged him to a public meeting at Chan She Shu Yuan in Kuala Lumpur on 3rd May 1990 to produce proof of his allegation of a DAP – PAS secret meeting in Jakarta . Again , Keng Yail ‘ chickened ‘ out.

It was then that the DAP put up posters in Gerakan constituencies in Penang and the other states carrying his photograph and the words : ‘keng yaik , you are a liar!”

Apart from Keng Yaik , Dr, kang chin Seng was the other Gerakan Leader who suffered the greatest humiliation from this episode and even became a rat running across the street in his own party , from this was his pet project which he thought would be the weapon to destroy the DAP in the 1990 general elections.

In the event , Gerakan suffered a drubbing in the 1990 general elections and Keng Yaik himself was nearly defeated in his own Bruas parliamentary seat , which he own by 763 votes.

This time around , Dr Keng Chin seng thought he would turn the table against the DAP – with the Gerakan learning from the DAP by putting up posters alleging that the DAP was telling lies.

However , Dr. Kang Chin Seng has not learnt the real moral of the lesson -  that only those who speak the truth are prepared anytime to a public debate of confrontation for the people to judge who is telling the truth and who is lying.

If Dr Kang Chin seng is not be a rat running across the street in his party for the second time, he should persuade Tsu Koon to agree ti an emergency State Assembly meeting and public debate

This was why in 1990 , I challenged Keng Yaik to a public ‘ confrontation ‘ and show doen at Chan she Shu Yuean . But are the Penang chief Minister , Dr. Koh Tsu Koon and the MPPP Prsident Datuk Tan Gim Hwa prepared to challenge the DAP to a public show down if they allege that the DAP are telling lies about the Hotel Metropole demolition scandal , the Taman Midland One Stop Centre scandal as well as other MPPP improperties?

In fact , it is the DAP which is challenging the Penang Chief Minister to an emergency meeting of the Penang State Assembly and challenging tsu Koon and Gim Hwa to a public debate on the Hotel Metropole demolition scandal and the Taman Midlands One stop Centre centre – and the Gerakan leaders who are running away from such public show-downs!

The DAP jad the moral and righteous basis for its poster campaign on Keng Yaik as a liar for the DAP was the wronged party.However , the penang Gerakan has no moral and righteous ground for its poster campaign accusing the DAP of lies , for it is Gerakan which is telling lies!

I will give a tip to Dr Keng Chin Seng so that his second pet project will not again boomerang and make him a rat running across the street in his own party a second time.

If the Gerakan poster campaign accusing the DAP of telling lies is to have credibility , Gerakan Leaders must be prepared to act like persons who side with trut and have public show-downs with the DAP.

Dr Kang Chin SEng should therefore persuade Tsu Koon to accept the DAP challenge to convene an emergency Penang State Assembly meeting on the Hotel Metropole demolition scandal , Taman Midlands scandal and the other MPPP improprieties and for Tsu Koon and Gim Hwa to aacot the second DAP challenge to a public debate on these MPPP scandals before the Chinese  New Year.
 
