+++ 
title: "Voters of Tanjong Papat and Elopura should select Sdr. Fung Ket Wing and Sdr, Ang Liang Hai as Sabah Assemblymen for all Sabahans to fight for the rights of ths people of Sabah"
date: "1994-02-15"
tags:
+++

_Press Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang on arrival at the Sandakan Airport on Tuesctay, 15tn Febu ary 1994 at 3 p.m._

# Voters of Tanjong Papat and Elopura should select Sdr. Fung Ket Wing and Sdr, Ang Liang Hai as Sabah Assemblymen for all Sabahans to fight for the rights of ths people of Sabah

I call on voters of Tanjong Papat and alopura to eject Sdr.Fung Ket Wing and Sdr, Ang Liang Hai as Sabah State Assemblymen on February 19 to fight for the rights of the people of Sabah.</u>

Regardless of the outcome In the battle between the PBS and the Barisan Nasional in the Sabah stats general elections this weekend, the presence of two DAP Assemblymen in the Sabah State Assembly would be the best guarantee that the rights of the people and state of sabah would be protected.

The record of the Sabah DAP is very clear, that the DAP is prepared to give every support to the PBS state government to demand for a more just and equitable Federal-State relation¬ship and an end to all disriminatory and undemocratic policies from Kuala Lumpur.

The nine years of the PBS state government, however, has also shown that there is a need for brave and courageous voices in the Sabah State Assembly to expose the corruption, abuses of power and improprieties in the state government - and this role will be best played by the two DAP candidates contesting in Tanjong Papat and Elopura.

Sdr. Fung Ket Wing had been Member of Parliament for Sandakan for three terms from 1978 to 1990, and his sacrifices, courage and commitment is well-known to all in Sandakan and Sabah. Ket Wing is really a man ‘of the people, from the people, for the people’ who has devoted his whole life to the betterment of Sabahans.

Sdr. Ang Liang Hai has also proved himself to be an idealistic, dedicated and selfless Sabahan who has not allowed the insuperable odds and numerous obstacles and setbacks to deter him from continuing to be a standard-bearer of the DAP in Sabah.

I have no hesitation in recommending Sdr, Fung Ket Wing and Sdr. Ang Liang Hai to the voters of Tanjong Papat and Elopura to become not only their Assemblymen but to be the Assem-blymen of all Sabahans if given the opportunity on Feb. 19.
 
