+++ 
title: "Loy Hean Heong should stop using proxies and should come forward to explain his relationship with the Lord President, Tun Hamid Omar, their meeting of March 24 and his role and involvement in the MBf contempt proceedings against DAP MP for Bukit Bintang, Wee Choo Keong"
date: "1994-05-23"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary, Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Monday, May 23, 1994:_

# Loy Hean Heong should stop using proxies and should come forward to explain his relationship with the Lord President, Tun Hamid Omar, their meeting of March 24 and his role and involvement in the MBf contempt proceedings against DAP MP for Bukit Bintang, Wee Choo Keong

It is very surprising that there has been no response or clarification in the last 48 hours from the MBf Group to my statement on Friday that the denial of the MBf Holdings Berhad chairman, Tunku Abdullah Tuanku Abdul Rahman that Tap Sri Loy Hean Heong is a litigant in the MBf contempt proceedings against DAP MP for Bukit Bintang, Wee Choo Keong, is weak and untenable.</u>

Is the silence of the MBf Group to be construed as its admission that its claim that Tan Sri Loy is not a litigant in the MBf contempt proceedings against Wee Choo Keong is completely untenable?

Tan Sri Loy Hean Heong should stop using proxies and should comb forward to explain his relationship with the Lord President, Tun Hamid Omar, their meeting of March 24 and his role and involvement in the MBf contempt proceedings against DAP MP for Bukit Bintang, Wee Choo Keong.

Why did Tan Sri Loy decide at the last minute not to appear at the MBf press conference which was called last Thursday specially by him to explain his role in the episode surrounding the contempt proceedings against Wee Choo Keong, which has undermined public confidence in the judiciary and the office of the Lord President?

Tan Sri Loy should step forward publicly to explain the following six matters:

•	Firstly, whether he regards himself as a litigant in the MBf contempt proceedings against Wee Choo Keong;

•	Secondly, what is his role and involvement in the MBf contempt proceedings against Wee Choo Keong;

•	Thirdly, who proposed the meeting between him and the Lord President, Tun Hamid Omar, in the Lord President’s Chambers on March 24. Two con¬flicting versions had been given as the MBf Holdings Berhad Chairman, Tunku Abdullah Tuanku Abdul Rahman said that Tun Hamid Omar invited Tan Sri Loy for tea, while Tun Hamid Omar said Tan Sri Loy himself telephoned and proposed that he called over to extend his congratulations on the extension of Tun Hamid’s tenure and greetings on his birthday.

•	Fourthly, how many times he had discussed the MBf contempt proceedings against Wee Choo Keong with Tun Hamid, as on the Lord President’s own admission to the press on April 23, 1994,  there was at least one such discussion. Thus, Tun Hamid said: “Tan Sri Loy’s visit was purely social. And I told him already that I am not hearing his case!”

•	Fifthly, does Tan Sri Loy agree that Tun Hamid had regarded him as a litigant in the case, and this was why Tun Hamid said that “I told him already that I am not hearing his case”. This was also the reason why Tun Hamid Omar withdrew from the Supreme Court panel which had been slated to hear Wee Choo Keong’s appeal in Penang on May 9 when the March 24 meeting became a public controversy.

•	Sixthly, as President and Chief Executive officer of the MBf Group of companies, Tan Sri Loy should explain the full and whole story with regard to the purchase of Tun Hamid Omar’s car by one of the companies in the MBf Group on, 19th March 1994 - five days before the meeting between Tan Sri Loy and Tun Hamid in the Lord President’s chambers.

Tan Sri Loy should realise that the public can only construe his continued silence on these six matters most unfa¬vourably against him, as there is no reason for him to avoid public accountability if he has nothing to hide.

Tun Hamid Omar should clarify whether he regarded Tan Sri Loy as a litigant in. the MBf contempt proceedings against Wee Cboo Keong

The attempt by Tan Sri Loy to deny that he is a litigant in the MBF contempt proceedings against Wee Choo Keong has not only failed abysmally, but only highlighted to an even sharper degree his role and involvement as the person most interested in the MBf contempt proceedings.

The time has also come for Tun Hamid to throw light on the confusion which Tan Sri Loy is trying to create. Tun Hamid should explain whether he regards Tan Sri Loy as a litigant in the MBf contempt proceedings against Wee Choo Keong.

Tun Hamid should also explain the sale of his car to one of the MBf Group of companies at a time when Tan Sri Loy is a litigant in the contempt proceedings against Wee Choo Keong.
 
