+++ 
title: "MPPP should give serious consideration to the 250 residents who have responded to the siganature petition opposing the Taman Midlands ‘ one – stop centre ‘ project"
date: "1994-01-30"
tags:
+++

_Press conference statement (2) by Parliamentary Opposition Leader , DAP leader ,DAP Secretary – General and MP for Tanjung , Lim Kit Siang , in Penang on Sunday , January 30,1994 at 12 noon_

# MPPP should give serious consideration to the 250 residents who have responded to the siganature petition opposing the Taman Midlands ‘ one – stop centre ‘ project 

First of all , I wish to deplore the ‘dirty trick ‘ of the MPPP in locking out the Pulau Tikus residents affected by the Taman Midlands ‘one stop centre ‘ project from the Balai Rakyat Pulau Tikus last night and the sabotage of the meeting of the residents.</u>

At the last minute , the MPPP demanded for police permit for the meeting of the affected residents with elected representatives of the people , which is most ridiculous and unfair.

Have the Prime Minister , the Deputy Prime Minister , The Cabinet Ministers or the Chief Minister to apply for police permits before the meeting the people over their problems?

It is clear that the MPPP have things to hide which explains its sabotage of  the meeting of the affected residents at the Balai Rakyat Pulau Tikus last night . The MPPP will be very mistaken however if they think such obstruction and sabotage can succeed in stifling the legitimate views of people.

The reason why the MPPP wants to sabotage the affected residents from having a free and frank discussion of their problems is very simple . Up to now the MPPP and Pangkal Permata (M) Sdn Bhd the developer for Taman Midlands One stop centre have created the impression that the affectd residents in Pulau Tikus all support the projected ,and only want some minor problems to be straightned out.

However , the signature petition launched by the Taman Midlands Actiion Committee opposing the Taman Midlands One Stop Centre Project had received the signature of some 250 affected residents.

The MPPP should give serious consideration to the 250 residents who have responded to the signature petition to oppose the Taman Midlands ‘ one stop centre ‘ project 

In view of the signature support by 250 affected residents , I will make three proposals :

Firstly , the MPPP President should have a dialogye with the affected residents before any MPPP approval is given for the Taman Midlands one stop centre planning application.

After the meeting with the MPPP President , the developer Pangkal Permata (M) Sdn Bhd should be prepared to met the Taman Midlands Action Committee.
Thirdly and finally , the Chief Minister Dr. Koh Tsu Koon must be prepared to meet the Taman Midlands Action Committee .
 
