+++ 
title: "DAP calls on Un Secreatry – General to implement UN Security Council Mandate to launch air strikes against Bosnia’ Serbs to end the long agony in Bosnia"
date: "1994-01-12"
tags:
+++

_By Parliament Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary –General and MP for Tanjung , Lim Kit Siang , in Petaling Jaya on Wednesday  , 12 January 1994;_

# DAP calls on Un Secreatry – General to implement UN Security Council Mandate to launch air strikes against Bosnia’ Serbs to end the long agony in Bosnia.

The world is disappointed by the outcome of the summit meeting of NATO leaders in Brussels yesterday which continued to issue empty threats of air strikes against Bosnia’s Serbs to end the one sided slaughter and genocide of Bosnian Muslims.</u>

Only the use of air power to silence Serbian guns and a lifting of the arms embargo – which has punished only victims not aggressors – could end the long agony of Bosnia, where nearly a quarter two to three million people face the dreadful prospect of dying this winter.

The Holocaust in Bosnia will end only if the international community – and that effectively means the United States – finaly uses air power to destroy Serbian artillert and end the arms embargo against to violence by the international community can end the slaughter of innocents in Bosnia.

The UN security Council voted in June last year to give the UN Secretary- General Boutors Boutors-Ghali the powers to order air strikes , especially if UN peacekeepers came under fire which occurred recently when five French soldiers were wounded at Sarajevo airport.

DAP calls on the UN secretary –general to implement the UN Security council mandate to launch air strikes against Bosnia;s Serbs as too many empty threats had been issued in the past.

Alternatively , Bputros- Ghali should delegate the powers to order air stikes to silence Serbian artillery shelling the Bosnian capital , Sarjevo , and to open up Tuzla airport and the relief of uN troops trapped in the eastern Muslim enclave of Srebrenica to the UNcommander in Bosinia , who had repearedly asked for such delegation of powers.

The Malaysian Government should send an official protest to the UM seceratry – General to express its dissapointment  and dismay at his failure to implement the UN Security Council mandate to use the air strike potion in the past six months.
 
