+++ 
title: "If a former judge like Tan Sri Datuk Chang Min Tat could be pushed around by the Penang JPJ, what about the ordinary people?"
date: "1994-02-02"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Wednesday, 2nd February 1994:_

# If a former judge like Tan Sri Datuk Chang Min Tat could be pushed around by the Penang JPJ, what about the ordinary people?

I commend former judge Tan Sri Datuk Chang Min Tat for his letter to a local newspaper complaining about the treatment he received from the Penang JPJ when he went to renew his driving licence in December 1993.</u>

Tan Sri Chang was told that the records in the Penang JPJ only showed that a driving licence was first issued to him in Ipoh in 1939, but not that he had taken a driving test and passed.

As such, his licence could not be renewed until he had produced proof that he had passed a driving test.

If a former judge like Tan Sri Datuk Chang Min Tat find it impossible to prove that he had passed a driving test more than 55 years ago, one can imagine the problem faced by the ordinary people when they go to the JPJ.

If a former like Tan Sri Datuk Chang Min Tat could be pushed around by the Penang JPJ, what about the ordinary people?

Penang DAP had repeatedly complained about the service at Penang JPJ as causing great inconvenience to the public.

The Transport Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Ling Liong Sik, is only good in making big press announcements about “Faster Services in JPJ” – which are not translated at the individual JPJ office levels.

Liong Sik will do greater service to the public and be a better Transport Minister if he makes less announcements, attend less Karaokes, and pay more visits to the JPJ offices throughout the country to ensure that JPJ counter services are quick, efficient and courteous!
 
