+++ 
title: "Malacca Yang di Pertua Negeri, Tan Sri Syed Ahmad Shahabudin should summon Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik and advise him to resign as Malacca Chief Minister to protect the image and reputation of Malacca and Malaysia"
date: "1994-09-07"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement (2) by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, at DAP PJ Headquarters on Wednesday, September 7, 1994 at 11.30 a.m._

# Malacca Yang di Pertua Negeri, Tan Sri Syed Ahmad Shahabudin should summon Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik and advise him to resign as Malacca Chief Minister to protect the image and reputation of Malacca and Malaysia.

The headlines in today’s national press, such as “Youth ‘forces out’ Rahim” (New Straits Times) and “Rahim forced out” (The Sun) show that Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik’s days are numbered although Rahim is still fighting back.</u>

It is exactly two weeks since the Utusan Malaysia carried an exclusive front-page report with the headline: “Pemuda Rahim dijangka berundur” with the write-up: “Pucuk pimpinan Pergerakan Pemuda UMNO pusat dijangka mengalami perubahan mengejut tidak lama lagi kerana ketuanya, Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik, dipercayai akan mengundur diri atas sebab-sebab peribadi”.

This also marked the start of his battle for survival as headlined by Utusan Malaysia in the next day’s paper “Rahim: Saya tiada masalah peribadi”.

I had right, from the beginning called for the resignation of Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik as Malacca Chief Minister, so that his scandals, trials and tribulations do not become the scandals, trials and tribulations of the Malaysian people and nation.

This was not to be, and for the last 14 days, the Rahim scandals have overshadowed all other developments, including the National Day celebrations, Anwar’s trip to China and Japan, Mahathir’s launching of the second national car, Perodua Kancil, the three Kuala Lumpur International Airport fires in August and September and the second gold-bar robbery at the airport in four months, and even the government ban of Al Arqam and arrests of Al Arqam leaders.

A political leader who places the interest of the people and nation above himself would not put the country through the two weeks of ignominy which Malaysians and the Malaysian nation suffered in the past fortnight, as a result of the unfolding of the Rahim scandals.

The Rahim scandals comprise triple scandals, as it is not just the allegation of his having an affair with a 15-year-old schoolgirl, but also involved corruption arising from his extraordinary and unusual wealth as well as his high-handed handling of the Pantai Kundor and Tanah Merah land acquisition controversy.

The Gerakan hss declared that the Rahim scandals are an UMNO matter which should be left to UMNO to resolve.

This is a most ‘boneless’, cowardly and unprincipled stand by a political party.

Rahim’s future as UMNO Youth leader is a matter for UMNO to decide, but his position as Malacca Chief Minister is a matter which is the concern of all Malaysians and ail Malaysians have a right to demand that Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik should step down as Malacca Chief Minister.

DAP calls on the Malacca Yang di Pertua Negeri, Tan Sri Syed Shahabudin Ahmad, to summon Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik and advise him to resign as Malacca Chief Minister to protect the image and reputation of Malacca and Malaysia.

Rahim must be told in no uncertain terms that for two weeks, he had failed to supreme test of patriotism of a political leader who will not allow his own actions to tarnish the reputation, honour and international credibility of the country.

If Rahim is still obdurate and refuses to resign as Malacca Chief Minister, then the Malacca State Assembly must convene an emergency meeting to pass a vote of no confidence on Rahim.

The failure of the Malacca State Assembly to convene such an emergency meeting to pass a vote of no confidence on Rahim to salvage the name and reputation of Malacca and Malaysia should not be forgotten or forgiven by the people.

The three DAP Malacca Assemblymen are requisitioning for an emergency Malacca State Assembly meeting and Malacca State Assemblymen who refuse to support the requisitioning of an emergency Malacca State Assembly topass a vote of no confidence in Rahim should explain to the electorate in the next general elections why they failed in their duty to protect and redeem the good name, reputation and honour of Malacca and Malaysia at this critical period. 

Call, on Keng Yaik, Liong Sik and Samy Vellu to take a stand on the Rahim scandals.

I also call on the leaders of the other Barisan Nasional parties, stand up and be counted and to speak in no uncertain tones that they want Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik to immediately resign as Malacca Chief Minister.
 
Where is Gerakan President, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik? Where is MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik? Where is MIC President, Datuk Seri S. Samy Vellu?

Have they absolutely nothing to say as to whether Rahim should resign, immediately as Malacca Chief Minister, to protect and redeem the name, reputation, honour and credibility of Malaysia? Or are they in sympathy and support of Rahim’s present plight?

There are people who say that the Rahim’s scandals is the latest manifestation of ‘Bukit China Strikes Again’, in retribution of his attempt ten years ago to demolish Bukit China. If this is true there are others who will be fearful of such ‘retribution’ - especially Dr. Ling Liong Sik!

Will Rahim scandals be a true ‘clean-up’and will end as another ‘cover-up’?

One question which must have intrigued political observers is how Rahim could fight back for so long when he has been abandoned by all the other UMNO national leaders, including his former comrades-at-arms in the Pasukan Wawasan.

There could only be one explanation - that he wants a deal in return for his retirement from politics, where he could be assured full immunity from prosecution for corruption arising from the ten police reports which the DAPSY National Chairmen and DAP-MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Guan Eng, had lodged with the Anti-Corruption Agency against Rahim.

Malaysians are watching whether in the Rahim scandals, there is a true ‘cleanup’ or it will end in another ‘cover-up’!
 
