+++ 
title: "DAP calls on Anwar Ibrahim to ensure that there is no ‘one-nation, two-systems’ in Malaysia and immediately announce that Federal Government will make annual allocations to all 60 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in Malaysia"
date: "1994-02-18"
tags:
+++

_Speech (Part 2} by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the Paya Terubong DAP Branch Chinese New. Year Reception held at its branch premises in Paya Terubong on Friday, 18th February 1994 at 8 p.m._

# DAP calls on Anwar Ibrahim to ensure that there is no ‘one-nation, two-systems’ in Malaysia and immediately announce that Federal Government will make annual allocations to all 60 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in Malaysia

During the Sabah state general elections, Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister, Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim said, that the Federal Government’s promise of RM5 million financial sup¬port to nine Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in Sabah is a ‘long-term national investment’.</u>

This is a most welcome change of attitude of the Federal Government vis-a-vis Chinese education and in particular, Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

However, DAP calls on Anwar Ibrahim to ensure that there is no ‘one nation, two systems’ as the Federal Government has failed to make regular financial allocations to the 37 Chi¬nese Independent Secondary Schools in Peninsular Malaysia and the 14 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in Sarawak.
.
Anwar should immediately announce that the Earisan Nasional will not practise a ‘one-nation, two-systems’ policy and that the Federal Government will make annual allocations to the 60 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in Malaysia.

Anwar should present a RM208 million supplementary estimates Bill in April Parliament to give retro¬spective effect to annual government grants to 60 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools

DAP calls on Anwar Ibrahim to present a RM208 million supplementary estimates Bill in April Parliament to give retrospective effect to annual government grants to the 60 Chi¬nese Independent Secondary Schools in Malaysia.

Based on the Federal government pledge to allocate RM5 million to the nine Sabah Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in the next five years, this works out roughly to RM500,000 for each school for five years, or RM100,000 a year.

At this rate of RM100,000 allocation a year to each school, and giving it retrospective effect for the 37 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in Peninsular Malaysia to 1957, or for 37 years, this works out to RM137 million.

The 23 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in Sabah and Sarawak should also be entitled to retrospective allocation going back to 31 years from 1963, which works out to RM71.3 million. (The RM5 million promised by Anwar for the nine Sabah Chinese Independent Secondary Schools are not taken into account because they concern the next five years).

The total sum for the supplementary estimates Bill therefore totals RM208 million.

I hope the four MCA Ministers and the sole Gerakan Minister would have learnt something useful from the Sabah state general elections and give full support to the DAP proposal for the RM208 million Supplementary Estimates Bill for the 60 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in Malaysia for the April Parliament.

At every Parliamentary meeting the government always present a supplementary estimates bill. It is up to the four MCA Ministers and one Gerakan Minister to ensure that the supplementary estimates bill which is presented in the April Parliament would include and allocation of RM208 million to give retrospective effect to the allocation of government grants to Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.
 
