+++ 
title: "Kit Siang thanks Malacca General Hospital doctors, nurses and staff and the Prime Minister Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed and all well-wishers for his recovery from the Sunday accident"
date: "1994-11-12"
tags:
+++

_Press Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, 12 November 1994_

# Kit Siang thanks Malacca General Hospital doctors, nurses and staff and the Prime Minister Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed and all well-wishers for his recovery from the Sunday accident

I wish to thank the Malacca General Hospital doctors, nurses and staff for taking care of me and for their diligence to save my life following my accident near the Senawang-Ayer Keroh Highway on Sunday.</u>

I also wish to thank the Prime Minister Datuk Sri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, the party Chairman Dr. Chen Man Hin, all party leaders and well-wishers for their concern, flowers, telegrams and prayers for my speedy recovery after the accident.

I want also to thank in particular the Malacca Chief Minister Datuk Mohd. Zin, the Health Minister Datuk Lee Kim Sai, the Science, Techonology and Environment Minister datuk Law Hieng Ding, Penang Chief Minister Dr. Koh Tsu Koon, former Deputy Prime Minister Datuk Musa Hitam, former Cabinet Minister Tan Sri Khir Johari who have either visited me or sent me speedy recovery messages or flowers.

I must also thank the Minister of Primary Industries Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik for his good-wish flowers and fruits, although they came after I had left the Malacca General Hospital for Parliament on Monday.

I was also very heartened by the people of Pantai Kundur and Pantai Tanah Merah who turned up in large numbers by my bedside in the Malacca Genaral Hospital.

I wish to apologise to the many others who went to the Malacca General Hospital on Monday after I had left for Parliament after a one-day treatment.

Throughout the whole episode of my accident, I am most touched by the solicitude and love expressed by ordinary Malaysians from all races and all walks of life over my safety and well-being, and these will be one of my most treasured memories of my public life.

It is obvious from my appearance at Paya Mengkuang Pig Rearers Dinner last night, I have not fully recovered and I will need some more time before I can regain my former self.
 
