+++ 
title: "Kit Siang instructs lawyers to file defamation proceedings against Lim Keng Yaik and New Sunday Times"
date: "1994-11-13"
tags:
+++

_Press Statement (2) by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary General and MP for Tanjong , Lim Kit Siang in Petaling Jaya on 13 November 1994:_

# Kit Siang instructs lawyers to file defamation proceedings against Lim Keng Yaik and New Sunday Times

I have given instructions to my lawyers to institute defamation proceedings against Gerakan President and Minister for Primary Industries Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik and the New Sunday Times for a defamatory report tarnishing my reputation.</u>

In today’s New Sunday Times report, Keng Yaik was commenting on the candidature of oh keng seng as Gerakan candidate in Tanjong Parliamentary constituency in the next general election.

The report quoted Dr. Lim as making the following statement:-

“Oh claimed that he was responsible for setting up various funds including the Bukit Cina Fund. However his contributions were never appreciated by the DAP.

“For example, the DAP Education Fund had once approved a scholarship for Lim Kit Siang but not to oh’s son.

“This is one of the many cases of discrimination practiced by the DAP leadership.”

These are lies as none of my sons had applied or received any scholarship for the DAP.

For the record, none of my two sons and two daughters had received a single cent from the Government or the DAP in completing their higher studies whether locally or abroad.

I am not asking for ten million ringgit as compensation from Lim Keng Yaik and the new Sunday Times, but I hope there could be an early date for this defamation proceeding to prove that defamation cases against barisan national leaders can be dealt with speedily.

Keng Yaik should learn to stop his politics of the gutter and abandon his inveterate, compulsive and incorrigible nature to tell lies against opposition leaders every time general elections loom near.
 
