+++ 
title: "Is Lim Ah Lek prepared to publicly apologise to the DAP for telling lies when he acused the DAP of never raising donations for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools?"
date: "1994-08-12"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, at the Bahau DAP Branch Dinner in Bahau on Friday, 12th an elected Member of Parliament_

# Is Lim Ah Lek prepared to publicly apologise to the DAP for telling lies when he acused the DAP of never raising donations for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools?

Three days ago, MCA National Vice President, Datuk Lim Ah Lek accused the DAP of never raising donations for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.</u>

Is Ah Lek prepared to publicly apologise to the DAP for telling lies when he made this false accusation against the DAP – making one public apology for every single proof produced by DAP to rebut the lie?

In the last week alone, the DAP had been continuing to make donations to Chinese education.

For instance, at the Malacca DAP 2,000-People Anniversary Dinner at Pay Fong Chinese Independent Secondary School last Saturday, Malacca DAP donation RM5,000 to the Pay Fong Chinese Independent Secondary School.

At the DAP Cheras Branch anniversary dinner at Taman Indah, Cheras last Friday, DAP donated RM1,000 to the Dong Jiao Zhong Education Centre, and ast night at the Kajang DAP Branch anniversary dinner, there was another RM1,000 donation to the Dong Jiao Zhong Education Centre.

Last year, DAPSY raised and donated RM124,695.40 to the Dong Jiao Zhong Education Centre.

Lim Ah Leek should therefore check his facts before he makes any allegations against the DAP or he would acquire the reputation of a MCA Vice President and Minister who has no respect for truth. If this is the case, MCA will soon be having a liar as a Deputy President since Ah Leek will replace Lee Kim Sai as the No. 2 man in MCA after the general elections.

I challenge Lim Ah Lek to accompany MCA President Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik to the ‘Kit Siang-Liong Sik mutual verification’ appointment at Bukti China in Malacca next week where he should publicly apologise for telling lies about the DAP if the DAP can produce proof of our consistent contribution to Chinese Independent Secondary Schools and Chinese education.

DAP gives assurance that it will not ‘damage’ MCA activities to raise funds for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools but only wants to ensure that every sen of such donation is accounted for and handed over to the Chinese schools

Lim Ah Leek also accused the DAP of trying to ‘damage’ MCA activities to raise funds for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

DAP gives solemn assurance that it will not ‘damage’ MCA activities to raise funds for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools but only wants to ensure that every sen of such donation is accounted for and handed directly to the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

I challene Ah Leek to explain how the DAP is ‘damage’ MCA activities in its fund-raising campaign for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools?

All that I had asked is that the MCA leadership should account to the Chinese community for the three items of donations for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools, namely

		*Firstly, the RM3,188,888.88 which the Liong Sik announced at the MCA nation-wide donation launching-ogg ceremony in Seremban on May 27 as having been collected;

		* Secondly, the RM6 million from the 600,000 MCA members on the basis of RM10 per member, which Liong Sik said would be collected by the end of the year; and

		* Thirdly, the collection from the big donors in the Chinese community, making use of the tax-exempt status of Huaren Fund account, in the nine months from May to January next year before the handing over of al the monies follected to the 60 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

DAP could not have ‘damaged’ the first item of MCA activities because Liong Sik announced on May 27 that MCA had already collected the RM3,188,888.88.

The legitimate question to be asked is where is this RM3,188 million, as in the past three months, all the MCA leaders have stopped talking about this money. Have they been banked, and if so, in what account? Surely asking these legitimate questions is not ‘damaging’ MCA activities to raise funds for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

If MCA has lost public confidence, if is because MCA leaders have not prepared to answer these legitimate questions.

The DAP also could not have ‘damage’ the second item of MCA donation activities, which is to raise RM6 million form 600,000 members at RM10 per member?

If this is the case, then something is very wrong with the MCA leadership and the entire MCA!

This only leaves the third item of MCA donation activities – to raise money from the ‘big donors’, who could give RM1 million, RM2 million or even RM5 million donations and are attracted by the special status of Huaren Fund Accout where their donations would be exempt from income tax!

There are however two mysteries here:

Firstly, up to now, Liong Sik and the other MCA leaders have not said a word about this third item of MCA donation activities. In Penang on Sunday, he merely said that he hoiped that MCA could raise RM6 million for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools, i.e. the RM10 donation each by its 600,000 MCA members – completely ignoring the RM3,188 million which MCA had already collected and the third item of MCA donation activities.

The second mystery is that MCA leaders have insisted with Dong Jiao Zhong that MCA wants to keep the list of donors secret, as it was Liong Sik himself who announced in Seremban the full list of donors for the RM3,188 million.

The full list, comprising only 13 ‘donors’, are:

		1. Country Resort Datuk Lee Kim Yew		RM1,000,000
		2. Magnum Holding Datuk Lim Kim Hwa	RM1,000,000
		3. Various State MCA 				RM1,000,000
		4. SHAPADU GROUP				RM     20,000
		5. MIC						RM     15,000
		6. MAJU INSTITUTE OF EDUCATIONAL
		    DEVELOPMENT				RM     15,000
		7. Dr. I. S. Ludher				RM       1,000
		8. Sui Hwa Recording Company			RM       1,000
		9. DELUXE NITE CLUB			RM  100,888.88
		10. Petaling Kuan Yin Temple			RM      30,000
		11. Lai Kee Yeow				RM        1,000
		12. Datuk Wong Chi Peng & Others		RM        1,500
		13. Anonymous					RM        3,500
								-----------------------
								RM3,188,888.88
								-----------------------

Anyone studying this list of 13 donors who totaled RM3,188 million in donation would have two thoughts:

Firstly, it is most disgraceful and dishonourable that the MCA has also to depend on RM30,000 donatios from MIC (which gave RM15,000 and through MIC-controlled MIED, gave another RM15,000).

If MIC with one Cabinet Minister could get 10 million Telekom shares from the Government for educational advancement of the Indians – and after the hijacking of nine million Telekom shares can still spare RM30,000 for MCA’s donation drive – why can’t MCA with four Cabinet Ministers get 40 million Telekom shares for the 60 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools?

If MCA had got from the Cabinet 40 million Telekom shares allocation for the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools, then the 60 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools would have made a profit of RM760 million – which could meet their total expenditures for the next six years without having to ask for a single sen of donation from the Chinese community.

The second thought is that if on launching off of the MCA donation drive on May 27, MCA could already collect RM3.188 million from 13 donors, then the MCA should have no problem in getting about 100 ‘big donors’ a month in the ten period from May till Chinese New Year next year – especially as they will enjoy tax exemption.

If 23 donors can donate RM3.188 million by May 27, from one thousand donors by Chinese New Year next year, MCA should have no difficulty in raising from this source RM50 to 60 million (without taking into account the RM6 million from the 600,000 MCA members)!

Chinese community has very good reason to be concerned that every sen raised by MCA should be accounted for and hanede to Chinese Independent Secondary Schools as MCA had produced top leaders who had been convicted and jailed for criminal breach of trust

The Chinese community have very good reason to be disappointed if the MCA could not hand over from RM30 to RM50 million to the 60 Chinese Independent Seconfary Schools by Chinese New Year next year.

Even if MCA hands over RM50 million early next year, this is only eight per cent of what the 60 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools need for the next five years, which is RM600 million!

Lim Ah Leek surely nows why there is concern in the Chinese community that the MCA should account for every sen of donation collected in the name of Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

In fact, the Chiese community has good reason to be very concerned that every sen collected by MCA should be fully accounted for and handed over the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

This is because unlike other political parties in the country, whether in Government or in Opposition, MCA had produced top leaders who had been arrested, charged, convicted and jailed for criminal breach of trust and misappropriation of public funds, like former MCA President, Tan Koon Swan, former MCA Youth leader, Kee Yong Wee and former MCA Deputy Minister, Wong Choon Wing.
 
