+++ 
title: "Penang DAP to organize a historic five-night marathon Tanjong 3 Thousand-People Dinners at Penang Chinese Town Hall from Oct. 3 – 7 to protest against Gerakan’s double-standards in refusing to allow DAP to hold 10,000-People dinner at Taman Free School grounds"
date: "1994-08-09"
tags:
+++

_Speech (Part 2) by Parliamentary Opposition Leaser, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the DAP Tanjong 3 ceramah at Taman Sri Rambai, Bukit Mertajam on Tuesday, August 9, 1994 at 9 pm_

# Penang DAP to organize a historic five-night marathon Tanjong 3 Thousand-People Dinners at Penang Chinese Town Hall from Oct. 3 – 7 to protest against Gerakan’s double-standards in refusing to allow DAP to hold 10,000-People dinner at Taman Free School grounds

Penang DAP is to organise a historic five-night marathon Tanjong 3 Thousand-People Dinners at the Penang Chinese Town Hall from October 3 to 7 which will also serve as a protest against Gerakan’s double-standards in refusing to allow the DAP to hold a 10,000-People Dinner at Taman Free School grounds.</u>

Although he is in name the Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon dare not intervene to stop the abuse of power by Tan Gom Hwa as MPPP President, who allowed Gerakan Jelutong Division to hold a political dinner at Taman Free School grounds on July 17. 

In Penang state today, the Penang Chief Minister cannot check or control the MPPP President, but he MPPP President can check and control the Chief Minister!

There are three Chief Ministers in Penang today one in name while two wielding the real powers

There are at present three chief Ministers in Penang – one in name while two wielding the real powers.

The Chief Minister in name is Dr. Koh Tsu Koon, while Dr. Ibrahim Saad is the real Chief Minister at the state government level and Tan Gim Hwa the virtual Chief Minister at the MPPP level.

It is not just the DAP who calls Dr. Koh Tsu Koon a ‘puppet Chief Minister’. A few days ago, the Penang UMNO State Secretary, Dr. Hilmi Yahaya, in an interview with a Chinese newspaper, admitted that Dr. Koh Tsu Koon is a ‘puppet Chief Minister’ in Penang.

If Gerakan is returned to the Penang State Government in the next general elections, there is no doubt that Tan Gim Hwa will wield even greater power than he is now.

If in such a scenario, Tsu Koon is still the Penang Chief Minister, Tan Gim Hwa will increasingly encroach into the powers of the Chief Minister. If in such a scenario, there is no Dr. Koh Tsu Koon, then Tan Gim Hwa might become the Penang Chief Minister.

Either way, the real question for Gerakan if it is returned to the Penang State Government in the next general elections is whether Gim Hwa could replace Tsu Koon as the Chief Minister!

This is why, Gim Hwa is now finding a ‘safe state seat’ to contest in the next general elections!
 
