+++ 
title: "There is nothing that the DAP can learn from MCA as one Ling Liong Sik is already too many for Chinese in Malaysia"
date: "1994-10-24"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-Generral and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Monday, 24th October 1994:_

# There is nothing that the DAP can learn from MCA as one Ling Liong Sik is already too many for Chinese in Malaysia

Yesterday, MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik said the DAP should learn from the MCA.</u>

There is nothing that the DAP can learn from the MCA as one Ling Liong Sik is already too mini for the Chinese in Malaysia.

After the 1990 general elections, when the Chinese in Malaysia rejected the MC which secured only 20 to 25 per cent of Chinese electoral support because they wanted to send a clear message to the Prime Minister, Datum Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed that they wanted a change in nation-building policies, Liong Sik sang a different tune.

Liong Sik said at the time: "The Chinese in Malaysia hould be contented because they have more political, economic educational, cultural and religious rights than the Chinese in any other country". The meaning of Liong Sik's message is that there is no need for any changes in nation-building policies as the. Chinese in Malaysia are in luck without knowing that they are in luck'!

If Mahathir had listened to Liong Sik instead of to the verdict of the Malaysian Chinese in the 1990 general elec¬tions, there would not be any 'Minor Liberalisation' of the past three years!

I have already given proof that Liong Sik is the Cabinet with the worst parliamentary record and performance -even worse than an ordinary UMNO Parliamentary Secretary.

He is also the Cabinet Minister with the least influence and power - as demonstrated by his failure to get a single Telekom share allocation for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools despite having four MCA Cabinet Ministers although MIC with one Cabinet Minister could get 10 million Telekom shares allocation for the educational upliftment of the Indian communi¬ty.

I do not want to refer to Liong Sik's record as Trans- port Minister, which qualifies him to enter into the Guinness Book of Records as the worst Transport Minister responsible for an international airport which is the most accident and fire-prone in the world!

It is most shocking that with such abysmal political, parliamentary and Ministerial record, Liong Sik could still. have the 'cheek' to hold himself out as an example for others - proving that he has beaten all other previous MCA Presidents with the thickest 'durian-skin' who does not know shame or modesty!

If the sole objective of DAP leaders is to be Cabinet Ministers, get titles or make money, we will learn from the MCA.

But the DAP has nothing to learn from the MCA, for we do not want DAP leaders to be like the Tan Koon Swans, Kee Yong Weer, Wang Choon Wings and even the Ling Liong Siks of MCA.
 
