+++ 
title: "I will step down as DAP Secretary-General and retire from politics if Keng Yaik can produce proof of his allegation of a DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta meeting on April 16, 1990"
date: "1994-06-15"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Wednesday, 15th June, 1994:_

# I will step down as DAP Secretary-General and retire from politics if Keng Yaik can produce proof of his allegation of a DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta meeting on April 16, 1990

		Gerakan President and Minister for Primary Industries, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, behaved as if he was the winner when my defamation suit against him was struck off by the Kuala Lumpur High Court, last Friday.</u>

		Keng Yaik knows that there is only one issue in contention in my defamation, case against him - that he had told a lie five months before the 1990 general elections about the so-called DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting on April 16, 1990.

		How can Keng Yaik claim that he had won the defamation suit when there had not been a hearing and he had not produced an iota of evidence to substantiate his lie of DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting on April 16, 1990?

		Keng Yaik's ‘exultation’ is not that of a person who had produced proof of his allegation of a DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting on April 16, 1990, but the 'exultation' of a person who had told a lie and found to his great relief that he had been spared the ordeal of being exposed in an open court as a liar.

		After my defamation case was struck out last Friday, I declared that Keng Yaik should publicly apologise and withdraw his lie of a DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta meeting on April 16, 1990 or I would re-institute legal proceedings against him, either by reinstating the case which was struck off last Friday or filing new legal action against Keng Yaik.

		Alternatively, as Keng Yaik had claimed that he has evidence of the DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting on April 16, 1990, he should produce these proof.

		If Keng Yaik can produce proof of a DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting on April 16, 1990, I will step down as DAP Secretary-General and retire from politics.

		As my stepping clown as DAP Secretary-General and retirement from politics had been the greatest dream of Keng Yaik in the past two decades, Keng Yaik would not miss this opportunity - unless he had no proof and had simply been telling a lie about the DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting in April 1990.
 
