+++ 
title: "Why Liong Sik talk about ‘heads will roll’ over the small Subang International Airport Terminal One toilet fire while not in the case of Subang Airport radar station fire or control tower fire?"
date: "1994-09-01"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Thursday, September 1, 1994:_

# Why Liong Sik talk about ‘heads will roll’ over the small Subang International Airport Terminal One toilet fire while not in the case of Subang Airport radar station fire or control tower fire?

Transport Minister, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik informed the press of a fire at the Subang International Airport Terminal One Kentucky Fried Chicken toilet yesterday, which had minimal damage apart from the smoke which entered into the airconditioning system.</u>

Liong Sik said ‘heads will roll’. Why does Liong Sik talk about ‘heads will roll’ over the small Subang International Airport Terminal One toilet fire while not in the case of Subang Airport radar station fire, 
or control tower fire costing damages running into tens of millions of ringgit?

Liong Sik said he visited the scene of the Subang Airport International Airport toilet fire yesterday itself. Why weren’t the press informed, so that they could cover the toilet fire and Liong Sik’s visit?

Why did the Transport Minister made a secret visit to inspect the Subang Airport toilet fire?

Clearly Liong Sik wants to convince Malaysians that he is now super-efficient in the case of a small Subang Airport toilet fire - but this cannot restore public confidence in his capability and competence after three major Subang International Airport fires in two years and two major gold robberies at the airport in four months.
 
