+++ 
title: "DAP welcomes proposal by the new Chief Justice to clear the huge backlog of criminal and civil cases as Justice Delayed is Justice Denied"
date: "1994-06-09"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Thursday, June 9, 1994;_

# DAP welcomes proposal by the new Chief Justice to clear the huge backlog of criminal and civil cases as Justice Delayed is Justice Denied

		DAP welcomes the latest proposal by the newly-appointed Chief Justice of Malaya, Tan Sri Mohamed Eusoff Chin to clear the huge backlog of criminal and civil cases as Justice Delayed in Justice Denied.</u>

		Tan Sri Eusuff Chin has suggested the introduction of a pre-trial hearing system, where parties are allowed to exchange documents or submit evidence-in-chief through affidavits to narrow down the issue for trial. This will cut down a lot of hearing time.

		This is a proposal worthy of serious consideration and the Chief Justice should discuss it with the Bar Council before implementing the system.

Tun Hamid Omar should step down as Lord President or at least go on leave to allow ACA free hand in its investigations

		Lord President, Tun Hamid Omar said yesterday that he welcomed Anti-Corruption Agency investigations into him and would co-operate with the ACA.

DAP MP for Bukit Bintang, Wee Choo Keong, had lodged reports with the ACA against Tun Hamid Omar.
Tun Hamid Omar should step down as Lord President or at least go on leave to allow the ACA free hand in its investigations.

If Government servants are interdicted or have to go on leave when they are investigated by the ACA, why should the Lord President be an exception?
 
