+++ 
title: "Liong Sik should explain what has happened to the missing RM3.188 million which MCA had collected in the name of Chinese Independent Secondary Schools"
date: "1994-08-09"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the DAP Tanjong 3 ceramah at Taman Sri Rambai, Bukit Mertajam on Tuesday, August 9, 1994 at 9 pm_

# Liong Sik should explain what has happened to the missing RM3.188 million which MCA had collected in the name of Chinese Independent Secondary Schools

MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, said in Penang on Sunday that the MCA was confident of exceeding its target of raising RM6 million before the end of the year to help Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.</u>

Liong Sik should explain what has happened to the missing RM3.188 million which MCA had collected in the name of Chinese Independent Secondary Schools by May 27.

At the nation-wide launching of the MCA donation drives for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools held in Seremban on May 27, Liong Sik announced that it had already collected RM3,188,888.99, and gave a list of the donors for this amount, namely:

	1. Country Resort Datuk Lee Kim Yew					RM1,000,000
	2. Magnum Holdings Datuk Lim Kim Hwa				RM1,000,000
	3. Various State MCA							RM1,000,000
	4. SHAPADU GROUP							RM     20,000
	5. MIC									RM     15,000
	6. MAJU INSTITUTE OF EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT		RM     15,000
	7. DR. I. S. LUDHER							RM       1,000
	8. SUI HWA RECORDING COMPANY				RM       1,000
	9. DELUXE NITE CLUB						RM100,888.88
	10. PETALING KUAN YIN TEMPLE					RM     30,000
	11. LAI KEE YEOW							RM       1,000
	12. DATUK WONG CHI PENG & OTHERS				RM       1,500
	13. ANONYMOUS							RM       3,500
									         ---	------------------
									          RM3,188,888.88
									         ---------------------

At the launching ceremony, Liong Sik also announced that the MCA would collect RM6 million by the end of the year from its 600,000 MCA members with every member donating RM10 each.

However, in the last two months, Liong Sik and the MCA leaders have not mentioned the RM3,188,888.88 which MCA had collected making use of the name of Chinese Independent Secondary Schools, and is merely talking about the RM6 million which the MCA will be collecting from its 600,000 MCA members.

What has happened to this RM3,188,888.88? Has this RM3.188 million been banked into an account, if so what is the account used, the dates the RM3.188 million had been banked whether in one lump sum or in various sums, and whether any sum has not been banked into the account.

Liong Sik cannot keep quiet as to the whereabouts of this RM3.188 million, as silence would be very incriminating for the MCA.

Since MCA has agreed to hand over the donations it had collected from the Chinese community directly to the 60 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools, why don’t the MCA now hand over the RM3.188 million which it had collected by May 27 to the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools while the balance of the donations MCA is now collecting could be handed over during the Chinese New Year early next year.

From the list of donors given by the MCA on May 27, it is clear that 23 donors were responsible for RM3.188 million. MCA should have no difficulty in getting a hundred donors a month in the nine months from May to January next year, particularly with the incentive advertised by MCA leaders that donations through MCA would be able to attract ‘tax-exemption’ schools.

If 23 donors can donate RM3.188 million by May 27, from one thousand donors by Chinese New year next year, MCA should have no difficulty in raising from this source RM50 to RM60 million (without taking into account the RM6 million from the 600,000 MCA members)!

There is no doubt that the Chinese community will be very disappointed if the MCA cannot hand over at least RM30 million to the 60 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools by Chinese New Year early next year.
 
