+++ 
title: "The UN Security Council, NATO and US must be condemned for they are capable only of more empty threats and angry rhetorics even in the face of the Saturday massacre of 68 people in a Sarajevo market by Serb mortar attack"
date: "1994-02-08"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Tuesday. 8th February 1994:_

# The UN Security Council, NATO and US must be condemned for they are capable only of more empty threats and angry rhetorics even in the face of the Saturday massacre of 68 people in a Sarajevo market by Serb mortar attack

The United Nations Security Council, NATO and the United States must be condemned for they are capable only of more empty threats and angry rhetorics against the Serb aggressors even in the face of the Saturday massacre of 68 people in a Sarajevo market by Serb mortar attack.</u>

The new US Defence Secretary, William Perry said the world was outraged over civilian deaths at Sarajevo, but the United States had not been sufficiently outraged to provide leadership to use its superior air power to end the carnage in Bosnia-Herzegovina.

Perry said that the West would consider air strikes on Serbian gun positions around Sarajevo if it considered that the civilian population was being cut off by the gunfire.

If the massacre of 68 civilians in a Sarajevo market is not considered sufficient cause for Western air strikes to silence the Serb guns, it is unlikely that the massacre of 688 civilians would suffice to launch the Western air strikes.

The United States Administration of Clinton has ignored the fact that the Serb gunners on moutains towering over Sarajevo have killed or wounded more than 65,000 residents since starting a siege of the Bosnian capital 22 months ago.

The UN Security Council, NATO and the United States have failed humanity in not implementing the UN resolutions to lift the siege at Sarajevo and six other Muslim enclaves in Bosnia-Herzegovina.

All nations of the world however will have to bear part responsibility for such failures unless they requisition an emergency United Nations General Assembly to provide for clear-cut UN air strikes against Serbian guns in Bosnia-Herzegovina.

Without such an emergency UN General Assembly sesson on Bosnia, the world will quickly fall back into stupor despite the massacre of 68 civilians on Saturday.
 
