+++ 
title: "I am very disappointed that MCA had not carried out its threat to institute legal action against me for my expose of the MCA Jempol Division donation scandal, as I have been looking forward to the defamation suit"
date: "1994-08-20"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, 20th August 1994:_

# I am very disappointed that MCA had not carried out its threat to institute legal action against me for my expose of the MCA Jempol Division donation scandal, as I have been looking forward to the defamation suit

I am very disappointed that the MCA had not carried out its threat to institute legal action against me for my expose of the MCA Jempol Division donation scandal, where MCA kept 75 per cent of donations collected in the name of Chinese Independent Secondary Schools while handing over 25 per cent of the monies to the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.</u>

I gave the MCA three days to file legal proceedings, which expired yesterday, and I am very disappointed because I have been looking forward to the defamation suit.

I would advise the MCA not to hesitate to institute legal proceedings against me if what I had said about the MCA Jempol MCA Division donation scandal is baseless and untrue.

MCA’s fear of instituting legal prceedings, after threatening that it would do so, is only further evidence that MCA has a lot of things to hide – not just the MCA Jempol Division donation scandal!

The MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, is now too busy trying to defend his own name, honour and credibility as Transport Minister after the third fire at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport at Subang since he become Transport Minister, and the ‘near miss’ between two aircrafts at the runway of the Subang International Airport on Tuesday.

I do not think Liong Sik has also time or the mood to reconsider my challenge to him to attend the ‘Kit Siang-Liong Sik mutual verification’ appointment at Bukit China in Malacca for the MCA to prove and establish it honesty, integrity and accountability on the nation-wide donation drive for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

I will not press Liong Sik on the ‘Two Lim mutual verification’ appointment at Bukit China at the moment, as he must be pre-occupied with the third fire at the Subang Airport.

I will give time for Liong Sik to decide when he will find the courae to accept the invitation to the ‘Kit Sinag-Liong Sik mutual verification’ appointment at Bukit China in Malacca, which would be held on the seventh day from Liong Sik’s acceptance of the appointment.
 
