+++ 
title: "I will answer the Penang Gerakan queries about the allegation that Australian spies had bribed opposition MPs in the DAP Ceramah at the Penang Town Hall next Tuesday on February 1"
date: "1994-01-28"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Friday , January  28th, 1994_

# I will answer the Penang Gerakan queries about the allegation that Australian spies had bribed opposition MPs in the DAP Ceramah at the Penang Town Hall next Tuesday on February 1 

Gerakan Exco Member Dr. Kang Chin seng has betrayed his true colours as a politician whose tactics and methods are abysmally low, despicable and immoral when he pounced on the Australian press report about the preposterous  allegation that Australian spies had paid opposition MPs in Malaysia tens of thousands of dollars to exploit for selfish political-party purpose.</u>

This Gerakan leader has done what even the Prime Minister , Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamad , has not done , when he tried to in fish in troubled waters by making unfounded insinuations against me based on a preposterous allegation which has not been proved to be true or to have any connection with me!

I can understand that the Penang Gerakan Leaders regard the Australian reports about the preposterous allegation of Australian spies bribing Malaysian Opposition MPs as a ‘god-send’ as for over a mouth , the Penang Chief Minister , Dr. Koh Tsu Koon the MPPP president , Datuk Tan Gim Hwa and the other Penang Gerakan leaders have not been able to answer the many issues raised by the DAP about the Hotel Metropole , Taman Midlands and other MPPP scandals.

The Pennag Gerakan leaders are hoping that the ; Australian spies bribing Opposition MPs ‘ allegation will give them a reprieve and distract the attention at the people of Penang from the Hotel Metropole , Taman Midlands amd other MPPPs scandal.

In the next few days , Penang Gerakan leaders will be making wilder and wilder allegations based on the preposterous allegation about Australian spies bribing opposition MPs , hoping that this will ‘ drown ‘ the DAP challenge to Koh Tsu Koon and Tan Gim Hwa to a Public Debate at the Penang Chinese Town Hall next Tuesday on February 1.

I have already said that it is up to Tsu Koon and Gim Hwa to decide whether the political event at Penang Chinese Town Hall next Tuesday is to be a Public Debate with the DAP on the Hotel Metropole , Taman Midlands and other MPPP scandals , or whether it is going to be a DAP political ceramah.

It Tsu Koon and Gim hwa dare to turn up for the Public Debate at the Penang Chinese Town Hall next Tuesday ,  they can raise their god bend issue of Australian spies bribing opposition Mps and I am prepared to answer all they have to say.

Even if they dare not turn up for yhe Public Debate , I will also answer the Penang Gerakan queries and lies on this issue that would be raised in the next ten days at the DAP Gerakan at the Penang Chinese Town Hall on February 1 next Tuesday.

Can Tsu Koon explain what are he compromises which had been reached in nine days for the alteration of the MPPP order to fully rebuild Hotel metropole to only rebuilding its façade:

However , I must advise the Gerakan leaders that they cannot be wrong it they think they now need not account to the people of Penang for the hOtel Metropole , Taman Midlands and other MPPP scandals.

For instance , the people of Penang are still waiting for Koh Tsu Koon explain what are the compromises which had been reached in the nine days for the alteration of the MPPP order to fully rebuild Hotel Metropole to rebuild only its façade:

On 6th January , Tsu Koon told the press that be fully backed  the MPPP President in serving an order on the new owners of Hotel Metropole to restore the land to its original condition.

Tsu Koon said : The council ‘s action is correct . This should serve as a lesson to anyone who wants to demolished buildings meant for conservation.”

However , nine days later on 15 January , Tsu Koon unllaterally announced that the new owners “need not rebuild the structure in its entirety but only rebuild its façade!

How did the MPPP order to ‘restore the land to its original condition ‘ – which can only mean one thing , the rebuilding of the entire Hotel Metropole – become in nine days the rebuilding of its faacde?

What are the compromises which had been reached in these nine days for the transformation of the restore to original condition order into a only rebuild façade other?

This is one of the key issues which Tsu Koon would have to give satisfactory explanation it he accepts the DAP challenge to a Public Debate at the Penang Chinese Town Hall next Tuesday on February 1 . Even if he dare not turn up for the Public Debate next Tuesday , the people are entitled to an answer.
 
