+++ 
title: "The Chinese Independent Secondary Schools had been denied government allocations of at least RM500 million in the past four decades because of failure of government recognition of their importance in “long-term” national investment for the future"
date: "1994-03-09"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung. Lim Kit Siang, at the meeting with DAP branch leaders in Bagan Parliamentary constituency at Jalan Raja Uda, Butterworth on Tuesday, 9th March 1994 at 8 p.m._

# The Chinese Independent Secondary Schools had been denied government allocations of at least RM500 million in the past four decades because of failure of government recognition of their importance in “long-term” national investment for the future
	
In the past four decades, the Federal Government had failed to accord proper recognition to the important role played by the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in the ‘long-term national investment for the future’.</u>

As a result, the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in Malaysia had been denied government allocations of at least RM500 million in the past four decades.

This is one aspect of the ‘major liberalisation’ in the whole spectrum of nation-building policies which the DAP is calling for - in contrast to the limited and minor ‘liberalisa¬tions’ in certain educational and economic measures adopted by the Barisah Nasional Government in the past three years.

If the country is to embark on a ‘major liberalisation’ of its policies,, then the Barisan Nasional Government should acknowledge that up to now, it had failed to adopt an open and liberal policy with regard to the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools which should have been allocated at least RM500 million in the past 37 years.

Now, the MCA leadership has sent out word that it is prepared to raise RM10 million for the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

If the MCA leadership is prepared to raise RM10 mil¬lion from their leaders and members, this is of course most, welcome, but RM10 million is a paltry figure when compared to the RM500 million which should have been allocated to the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools by the Federal Government in the past four decades.

The four MCA Ministers in Cabinet would make an even more meaningful contribution to the development of Chinese Inde¬pendent Secondary Schools if apart from their RM10 million donation, they could secure Cabinet recognition of the great nation-building role played by Chinese Independent Secondary Schools by making annual allocations from the Federal Treasury.

P. Patto, Dr. Tan Seng Giaw and Dr. Kua Kia Soong appointed by CEC to assist in general elections preparations in Penang

The DAP will be conducting election courses at both the national, state and local levels as part of the preparations for the coming general elections.

The DAP Central Executive Committee had also appointed DAP Deputy Secretary-General P. Patto, DAP National Vice Chairman Dr. Tan Seng Giaw and Director of Political Bureau Dr. Kua Kia Soong to assist in general elections preparations in Penang.

The allocation of CEC leaders to assist in general election preparations is not confined to Penang. For instance, the CEC has appointed Deputy Secretary-General, Sdr. Liew Ah Kim, National Vice Chairmen Sdr. Lee Ban Chen and Sdr. Ahmad Nor to assist in general election preparations in Perak; Sdr. Lee Ban Chen and National Publicity Secretary. Sdr. Lim Guan Eng to assist in general election preparations in Selangor; Dr. Tan Seng Giaw and Sdr Lim Guan Eng for Negri Sembilan; and. Sdr. Kerk Kim Hock, National Organising Secretary and Sdr. Liew Ah Kim to assist Johore.

As part of the general elections preparations, a DAP National Leadership Conference on the themes and challenges of the next general elections would be held on April 10.
 
