+++ 
title: "Penang DAP challenges MPPP President , Tan Gim Hwa and the Chief Minister , Dr Koh Tsun Koon to a public debate on the Hotel Metropole and Taman Midlands One Stop Centre Scandals"
date: "1994-01-16"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya  on Sunday, January  16th, 1994:_

# Penang DAP challenges MPPP President , Tan Gim Hwa and the Chief Minister , Dr Koh Tsun Koon to a public debate on the Hotel Metropole and Taman Midlands One Stop Centre Scandals.


Penang DAP challenges MPPP President , Tan Gim Hwa and the Chief Minister , Dr Koh Tsun Koon to a public debate on the Hotel Metropole and Taman Midlands One Stop Centre Scandals.</u>

This public debate must take place before the Chinese New Year and could be held at the Pennag Chinese  Town Hall , Dewan Sri Pinang  or even at KOMTAR . Penang DAP nominates its Penang State Secretary and Assemblymen for Pangakalan Kota Sdr. Chow Kon Yeow , to finalise details for this public debate , so let Gim Hwa and Tsu Koon nominate their representative.

Details of the rules of the public debate , place and time . as well as the chairman of the Public debate , can them be agreed  upon by both sides.

If the gerakan Leaders are right that the DAP had been telling lies about the Hotel Metropole and Taman Midlands ‘One stop Centre’ scandals as well as other MPPP abuses of power and improprieties such a public debate would be a “God-send” opportunity to Gerakan to expose the DAP ‘s lies.

Unless they have something to hide , Gim Hwa and Tsun Koon should jump on this opportunity to expose the DAP before the Penang people by immediately acceptimg the DAP challenge to a public debate.

I have great doubts however that Gim Hwa and Tsu Koon would dare to accept the Penang DAP challenge to a public debate on the Hotel Metropole and Taman Midlands ‘ one Stop Centre’ Scandals , for the Gerakan leaders should know better than others the many scandals things they have kept hidden to avoid public accountability and transparency.

Penang Gerakan ‘s 10,000 ugly black and white Poster campaign an admission that Penang Gerakan leaders are facing a crisis of confidence among the people about their integrity in government

Penang Gerakan ‘s 10,000 ugly black and white Poster campaign an admission that Penang Gerakan leaders are facing a crisis of confidence among the people about their integrity in government



It is also because the penang Gerakan Leaders are facing a crisis of confidence among the people that Gim Hwa and Tsu Koon would not dare to accept the Penang DAP challenge to a public debate on the MPPP scandals , improprieties and abuses of power.

However, I am prepared to be proved wrong – and let us see whether Gim Hwa and Tsu Koon dare to prove me wrong!
 
