+++ 
title: "DAP calls for the lifting of all restrictions for the other three Subahans – Vincent chung , Damit Undikai and Albinus Yudah"
date: "1994-01-20"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya  on Thursday , January  20th, 1994:_

# DAP calls for the lifting of all restrictions for the other three Subahans – Vincent chung , Damit Undikai and Albinus Yudah

DAP welcomes the lifting of all restrictions imposed on Datuk Dr. Jeffrey Kitingan , who was restricted to Seremban after being released from the Kamunting Detention Centre on Dec 22 last year after a 31-month detention under the Internal Security Act.</u>

There are however three other Sabahans who had been detained under the ISA on similar grounds as De. Jeffery Kitingan , and who are still under restricted residence and DAP calls for the lifting of all restrictions imposed on them.

They are Vincent Chung , who is restricted in Kuantan , Damit Undikai , restricted in Keningau and Albinus Yudah , restricted in Kudat.

	DAP calls for suspension and review of ISA

Deputy Prime Minister . Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim , has said that the Government was prepared to review the Internal Security Act.

DAP calls on the Prime minister , Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed , to suspend the operation of the Internal Security Act until a full review of the Internal Security Act had been carried out , fully involving all political parties , interested Malaysian organizations and individuals.

The ISA should be reviewed with the objective of abolishing its detention without trial powers.

During this review , all detainess under the Internal Security act should be released and the Government should give an undertaking that the ISA would not be used to detain anyone without trial during the period of the review.
 
