+++ 
title: "The voters of Tan Jong Papat and Elopura should elect Sabah DAP leaders, Fung Ket Wing and Ang Lian Hai, into the Sabah State Assembly on February 19 to play a political role which cannot be played either by PBS or Barisan Nasional"
date: "1994-02-13"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Sunday, February 13, 1994:_

# The voters of Tan Jong Papat and Elopura should elect Sabah DAP leaders, Fung Ket Wing and Ang Lian Hai, into the Sabah State Assembly on February 19 to play a political role which cannot be played either by PBS or Barisan Nasional

The voters of Tanjong Papat and Elopura should elect Sabah DAP leaders, Fung Ket Wing and Ang Lian Hai, into the Sabah State Assembly on February 19 to play a positive and steadying political role which cannot be played either by the PBS or the Barisan Nasional.</u>

If Fung Ket Wing and Ang Lian Hai are elected Sabah State Assemblymen, the people of Sabah would have the fullest and the most effective political representation - for both the Sabah DAP Assemblymen would act as the custodians of the interests of the people of Sabah.

They would criticise and expose irregularities, impro prieties and corruption scandals of a PBS Government as fiercely as they would oppose and criticise Federal Government bullying and discrimination against the rights and interests of Sabahans.

The two DAP Assemblymen in the Sabah State Assembly would not oppose for the sake of opposition. In the interests of the people of Sabah, they would support a PBS Government to stand up against the domineering and discriminatory measures of the Federal Government. Again in the interests of Sabah, they would expose scandals of corruption or abuses of power in the state, whether by PBS or the Barisan Nasional.

There is no doubt that the Sabah political situation would have been very much healthier if there had been DAP Assem¬blymen in the Sabah State Assembly in the past four years to defend the rights and interests of Sabahans.

Although there is a lot of ‘heat and thunder’ in the current general elections campaign from the Barisan Nasional and PBS, the people of Sabah should see beyond the February 18 and 19 general elections when there could be even more political changes.

Only the two DAP Sabah Assemblymen, if elected, on polling day, could provide the constant, steady and positive influence in such fluid political situation to uphold the higher interests and rights of the people.
 
