+++ 
title: "Advice to Gim Hwa that his tactic of ‘Be a Liar Shouting Liar’ is no different from ‘Be a Thief Shouting Thief’ tactic which can only result in his loss of all credibility and legitimacy as MPPP President"
date: "1994-02-04"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Friday, 4th February 1994:_

# Advice to Gim Hwa that his tactic of ‘Be a Liar Shouting Liar’ is no different from ‘Be a Thief Shouting Thief’ tactic which can only result in his loss of all credibility and legitimacy as MPPP President.

I must advice MPPP President, Datuk Tan Gim Hwa, that his tactic of ‘Be a Liar Shouting Liar’ is no different from ‘Be a Thief Shouting Thief’ tactic which can only result in his loss of all credibility and legitimacy as MPPP President.</u>

The people of Penang has judged for themselves who dare not face the truth when Gim Hwa, the Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon and the Gerakan President, Dr. Lim Keng Yaik dare not accept the DAP challenge to a Public Debate on the Hotel Metropole, Taman Midlands, Relau Indoor Stadium and other MPPP scandals at the Penang Chinese Town Hall on Tuesday night.

It is clear that the Gerakan leaders have to go round shouting ‘Liar, Liar’, and even go round the state putting up 10,000 posters on ‘DAP lies’ because they are the ones who are telling lies, and they want the people not to notice their lies. This is just like the classic ‘Be A Thief Shouting Thief’ gimmick!

Gim Hwa should seriously reconsider his position, and if he is not prepared to submit to the democratic principles of responsibility, accountability and transparency as MPPP President, in particular over the Hotel Metropole, Taman Midlands, Relau Indoor Stadium and other MPPP scandals, he should not accept re-appointment as MPPP President when his two-year term expires in two weeks time on February 19.

He should not take unfair advantage of the Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon, just because Tsu Koon is his political subordinate in Penang Gerakan and dared not exercise his powers as Chief Minister.

I believe Gim Hwa knows that if the Penang Island ratepayers have an opportunity to vote in a referendum whether they want him to be re-appointed as MPPP President, the over-whelming majority would vote ‘No’!
 
