+++ 
title: "DAP’s withdrawal from the Gagasan Rakyat has confused, upset and even panicked some Barisan Nasional leaders"
date: "1995-01-27"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang,in Penang on Friday, 27th January 1995:_

# DAP’s withdrawal from the Gagasan Rakyat has confused, upset and even panicked some Barisan Nasional leaders

It is clear that DAP’s withdrawal from the Gagasan Rakyat has confused, upset and even panicked some Barisan Nasional leaders.</u>

This is why in the past 24 hours, Barisan Nasional leaders, like the MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, MCA Secretary-General, Datuk Dr. Ting Chew Peh, Gerakan Deputy President, Kerk Choo Ting, Gerakan Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon, UMNO Defence Minister, Datuk Najib Tun Razak, Johor Menteri Besar Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin as well as other MCA and Gerakan leaders have been making conflicting and contradictory statements about the DAP’s withdrawal from the Gagasan Rakyat.

It is not only political leaders from one Barisan Nasional party making conflicting statements with political leaders from other Barisan Nasional parties, but also political leaders making conflicting statements with other political leaders when they are all from the same Barisan Nasional party. But the gem of these reactions of confusion, upset and even panic as a result of DAP’s withdrawal from the Gagasan Rakyat is from the Gerakan national youth leader, Lim Boo Chang, whose statement is a classic example how to contradict oneself from the beginning to the end.

These reaction of confusion, upset and even panic from Barisan Nasional leaders as a result of DAP’s withdrawal from the Gagasan Rakyat is not worthy of attention, for they merely reflect the sense of ‘loss of hearing’ by MCA and Gerakan leaders making them to behave like ‘punch-drunk’ boxers senselessly hitting out in all directions.

I pity the MCA and Gerakan leaders and their propagandists and can understand their confusion, upset and panic as they had planned their next general elections campaign on one Big Lie – that the DAP had teamed up with PAS and supports PAS’ hukum hunud and Islamisation policies because of DAP’s association with Semangat 46 in Gagasan Rakyat.

With the DAP’s withdrawal from the Gagasan Rakyat, the MCA and Gerakan will now have to throw away all the propaganda materials they have prepared as the basis for their Big Lie campaign in the next general elections has disappeared!

The DAP’s withdrawal from the Gagasan Rakyat has threatened the MCA and Gerakan factories of lies with closure, but the MCA and Gerakan will of course think of new lies against the DAP to keep their factories of lies going. However, these new MCA and Gerakan lies will have even less credibility – when the DAP had never co-operated or supported PAS in its hukum hunud and Islamisation policies when the DAP was in Gagasan Rakyat and PAS was never a member of Gagasan Rakyat.
 
