+++ 
title: "Call on Attorney-General to intervene and investigate whether the belated arrest of former DAP MP for Lanang, Wong Sing Nang allegedly tor an election offence is a case of bias and victimisation against the opposition"
date: "1995-10-23"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement (1) by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjonq, Lim Kit Siang, in Seremban on Friday. Octocer 13, 1995:_

# Call on Attorney-General to intervene and investigate whether the belated arrest of former DAP MP for Lanang, Wong Sing Nang allegedly tor an election offence is a case of bias and victimisation against the opposition

Sarawak DAP State Chairman and former DAP MP for Lanang, Wong Sing Nang , was arrested .by the police in Sibu on Wednesday, and he would be charged in the Sibu Sessions Court on Monday, 16th October 1995 for an election offence during the. April 1995 general election.</u>

I call on the Attorney-General, Datu.k Mohtar Abdullah to intervene and investigate whether the belated arrest of Wong Sing Nang allegedly for an election of fence is a case of bias and. victimisation against the Opposition because Wong Sing Nang had filed an election petition against the SUPP MP for Lanang.

If there is no satisfactory explanation from the Attorney-General, I will raise this issue in Parliament.

Recently, there had been many cases where judicial and police officers have failed to act with accountability and trans¬parency to justify their decisions and actions adversely affecting the rights of Malaysian citizens.

I had presented to the Inspector-General of Ponce, Tan Sri Rahim Noor an Indictment against police bias when investigating government leaders and police officers as compared to opposition leaders, government critics and the ordinary people, and up to now, I have not received satisfactory explanations to the six charges I had forwarded.

Police bias, whether it be the assault of the DAPSI National Secretary Ronnie Liu by the FRU; the police investiga¬tion of Tenaganita director, Irene I-ernanciez or others will become major issues in the forthcoming Parliament.
 
