+++ 
title: "Call on Selangor Mentri Besar, Tan Sri Muhammad Haji Muhammad Taib to resign as he had showed contempt for the rule of law in demolishing the Taman Aman squatter houses when an application for injunction was pending in court and was subsequently granted"
date: "1995-09-26"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, when re-visiting the Taman Aman squatter site in Petaling Jaya on Tuesday, September 26, 1995:_

# Call on Selangor Mentri Besar, Tan Sri Muhammad Haji Muhammad Taib to resign as he had showed contempt for the rule of law in demolishing the Taman Aman squatter houses when an application for injunction was pending in court and was subsequently granted

I call on the Selangor Mentri Besar, Tan Sri Muhammad Haji Muhammad Taib to resign as he had shown contempt for the rule of law in demolishing the Taman Aman squatter house when an application for injunction was pending in court and was subsequently granted.</u>

However, by the time the injunction was granted by the High Court, it was too late and most of the houses had already been demolished.

It was also in this illegal demolition exercise that the DAPSY National Secretary, Ronnie Liu, the PRM President, Datuk Syed Husin Ali and his wife were assaulted by the FRU.

Ronnie was severely beaten up by a FRU squad who rained baton blows on him and kicked him when he fell. Ronnie was unarmed and had asked the FRU officer, DSP Sulaiman, whether he had the legal authority to enforce the demolition exercise.

The High Court decision granting the injunction to stay demolition last Friday was proof that Ronnie Liu had asked the correct question, and that the FRU officer had acted most unlawfully in enforcing the demolition as well as instrumental for the brutal physical attacks on Ronnie Liu.

Ronnie had lodged a police report against DSP Sulaiman and the FRU squad which attacked him, but there has been no response from the Inspector-General of Police, Tan Sri Rahim Nor, who had been very quick to respond publicly on other matters.

This is most deplorable as such police double standards can only undermine public confidence in the police.

In this connection, the Selangor Mentri Besar, Tan Sri Muhamad Taib must personally visit the Taman Aman squatter area to apologise to the people for demolishing the houses instead of waiting for the Court to decide on their application for an injunction.

Tan Sri Muhamad Taib should explain why he was so “fierce” against the Taman Aman squatters but so silent on the issue of a top Selangor government officer who was caught commit¬ting an intimate act with a woman in his official car in the Shah Alain stadium carpark last month.

Even the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, had commented on it, when he said that action would be taken against the officer concerned if the allegation is proven true.

Tan Sri Mohamad Taib should know better than anyone that the allegation is true, that the officer had been transferred out of the Selangor state and that he had submitted his optional retirement papers.

The question is why no action had been taken against this officer if he had violated government general orders - or is there a law for the top government officials while another one for the ordinary people like the squatters at Taman Aman.
 
