+++ 
title: "DAP supports Malaysia’s stand to focus on the French nuclear at the CHOGM meeting and proposes that CHOGM send an independent international commission of scientists to study the impact of the French nuclear tests on the environment and health or the South Pacific islanders and the eco-system"
date: "1995-11-04"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, November 4, 1995:_

# DAP supports Malaysia’s stand to focus on the French nuclear at the CHOGM meeting and proposes that CHOGM send an independent international commission of scientists to study the impact of the French nuclear tests on the environment and health or the South Pacific islanders and the eco-system.

DAP supports Malaysia’s stand to focus on the French nuclear tests at the CHOGM meeting in Auckland from Nov. 10 to 15. The foreign Ministry Deputy Secretary-General 11, Datuk Hasmy Agam, said yesterday that the CHOGM meeting in Auckland would be more focused and that the French nuclear tests would be a hot topic.</u>

Malaysia must take a stronger stand in international forums against the French nuclear tests in view of the arrogant and preposterous statement by the French Ambassador to Malaysia, Eduard Political Parties, that the French nuclear tests in the South Pacific are completely harmless ad would continue.

At its meeting in Auckland, CHOMG send an independent international commission of scientists to study the impact of the French nuclear tests on the environment and health of the South Pacific islanders and the eco-system and further demand that:

<blockquote>“The French Government make available to the CHOGM Commission of Scientists all French scientific date, samples and studies so that an independent and comprehensive assessment of the environmental and health impacts of French testing in the South Pacific may be made.</blockquote>

“France accept full and exclusive responsibility to pay compensation for all damages to the health of those affected and the eco-system, whether past, present of future, arising from French nuclear tests in the South Pacific.

The CHOGM meeting in Auckland should consider a programme of sanctions against the French Government if it continues to defy international opinion and set off a fourth nuclear tests. The Britain Prime Minister John Major should also be asked to retract his support for the French nuclear tests. 
