+++ 
title: "Malaysian Parliament should pass a motion to formally condemn President Chirac and the French Government for its outrageous continuation of nuclear tests in South Pacific"
date: "1995-10-03"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Java on Tuesday, October 3, 1995:_

# Malaysian Parliament should pass a motion to formally condemn President Chirac and the French Government for its outrageous continuation of nuclear tests in South Pacific

French President. Chirac and the French Government committed another outrage when it conducted the second, of its new series of nuclear weapon tests in the South Pacific yesterday.</u>

The second nuclear blast, beneath Fangataufa atoll in French Polynesia yesterday was some five times more powerful than the US atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima in 1945.

The world cannot allow Chirac and the French Govern¬ment to continue to defy world opinion by continuing its series of six to eight nuclear tests in the South Pacific.
The United Nations General Assembly should formally censure Chirac and the French Government and demand an immediate halt to all other French nuclear tests.

The Malaysian Parliament missed an opportunity in the August meeting to lead world, opinion by condemning the French Government for its decision to resume nuclear tests, although there was a motion specifically on this issue on the Parliamen¬tary Order paper in the name of the DAP MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Guan Eng.

For the budget meeting of Parliament beginning on October 16, Guan Eng has again resubmitted a motion condemning Chirac and the French government for the resumption of nuclear tests and to demand an immediate halt to all other tests.

I urge the Cabinet, to take a policy decision to agree to allow Guan Eng's motion condemning the resumption of French nuclear tests to take top priority on the first day of Parliament on October 16 to be debated and adopted by MPs of all political parties - to show that the Malaysian Parliament is relevant to national and international concerns and is in the very forefront, of Parliaments in the world in denouncing resumption of French nuclear tests in the South Pacific.

Such a motion by the Malaysian Parliament can then be sent to the European Parliament as well as the French Parliament to make them aware of the outrage felt by Malaysians over the resumption of French nuclear tests.
 
