+++ 
title: "Warning to MCA to stop its communal campaign in the Bagan by-election to paint me as anti-Malay to secure the Malay votes"
date: "1995-09-07"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, at Penang DAP Hqrs on Thursday, 7th September 1995 at 11.30 a.m._

# Warning to MCA to stop its communal campaign in the Bagan by-election to paint me as anti-Malay to secure the Malay votes

I have called this press conference to make sure that what happened at the DAP and MCA ceramahs at Bagan Lallang in the Bagan by-election last night is not distorted and communalised by unscrupulous MCA election workers.</u>

Last night, the DAP and MCA had ceramahs at Bagan Lallang which were face-to-face, within listening distance from each other.

When I arrived at the DAP ceramah at Bagan Lallang at about 11.20 p.m., the Deputy Chief Minister, Datuk Mohd. Shariff Omar was speaking at the MCA ceramah, and I heard him say that I was getting old and useless.

This prompted my direct challenge to Shariff when I went up the DAP ceramah to walk up Penang Hill or Bukit Mertajam (Cherok Tekun hill) this morning. Shariff could hear my challenge to him but he dared not accept or respond although only a while ago, he had said that I was old and useless.

I know that the MCA and Barisan Nasional campaign workers are trying to distort and communalise this incident to show that this is the latest proof that I am anti-Malay, and I want to warn the MCA election workers not to resort to such despicable and irresponsible politiking just to secure the Malay votes and win the Bagan by-election.

My challenge to Shariff to walk up Penang Hill or Bukit Mertajam (Cherok Tekun hill) is a friendly one and remains open for the next 36 hours


In this connection, Shariff should publicly apologise for making uncalled-for personal attacks against me by claiming that I am getting old and useless, or he should accept my challenge to walk up Penang Hill or Bukit Mertajam (Cherok Tekun hill).

Is Shariff quietly suggesting that the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamad, who is more than 15 years my senior, is getting too old and should step down soon?

My challenge to Shariff to walk up Penang Hill or Bukit Mertajam is a friendly one and remains open for the next 36 hours.

Shariff should have no qualms in accepting my challenge as I had not been having any practice recently, although I went up Mount Kinabalu and reached Low’s Peak, the summit, which is 4,101 meters, in September 1993.
 
