+++ 
title: "By voting against the DAP amendment motion in Parliament to establish a Royal Commission to monitor the implementation of NDP, the MCA, Gerakan and MIC Ministers and MPs have killed one of the most important recommendations of the NECC"
date: "1991-06-20"
tags:
+++

_Speech (Part 2) by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the Banting DAP Branch dinner to celebrate its official opening held at Banting on Thursday, 20th June 1991 at 8 p.m._

# By voting against the DAP amendment motion in Parliament to establish a Royal Commission to monitor the implementation of NDP, the MCA, Gerakan and MIC Ministers and MPs have killed one of the most important recommendations of the NECC

The MCA, Gerakan and MIC Ministers and MPs should explain the reason for the rejection of the DAP amendment in Parliament on Tuesday for the establishment of a Royal Commission of Inquiry to monitor the implementation of the New Development Policy and the Second Outline Perspective Plan 1991-2000.</u>

MCA, Gerakan and MIC leaders will always express their concern about deviations in the implementation of government policies, including the New Economic Policy, blaming the failures not on government policy but on its implementation.

Yet, in the past 20 years, the MCA, Gerakan and MIC leaders have failed to check or rectify serious deviations, abuses of power, breaches of trust, conflicts of interest, corrupt and unethical practices under the New Economic Policy.

The MCA and Gerakan leaders are talking about setting up their own monitoring mechanisms for the NDP and the OPP2. This must be a big joke. If the MCA and Gerakan, with Ministers in the Cabinet, cannot check so-called government policy deviations, what could MCA and Gerakan leaders outside the government do?

The MCA, Gerakan and MIC Ministers and MPs have put their personal and party interests above the interests of the people in rejecting my amendment to the motion moved by the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr.Mahathir Mohamed, on the Opp2 and NDP, so that there is a standing Royal Commission to monitor all aspects of the national economic policies for the next 10 years.

The proposal for a Royal Commission to monitor all aspects of implementation of the national economic policies is also one of the most important recommendations of the National Economic Consultative Council.

By voting against the DAP amendment motion in Parliament on Tuesday, the MCA, Gerakan and MIC Ministers and MPs have killed one of the most important recommendations of the NECC.

This is another example of the MCA, Gerakan and MIC Ministers and MPs saying one thing but doing the very opposite.
 
