+++ 
title: "Kit Siang prepared to have a Three Lime meeting at MCA Headquarters to from a Joint Action Committee to Save the Chinese in Kelantan from Oppression after Liong Sik had produced proof of such oppression"
date: "1991-04-23"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the 25th Anniversary DAP Dinner organised by Triang DAP Branch in Triang on Tuesday, 23 April 1991 at 8p.m._

# Kit Siang prepared to have a Three Lime meeting at MCA Headquarters to from a Joint Action Committee to Save the Chinese in Kelantan from Oppression after Liong Sik had produced proof of such oppression

The MCA President, Datuk Dr.Ling Liong Sik, made a very serious allegation in Jorhore Bahru recently, when he said that the Chinese in Kelantan had been oppressed under the PAS-Semangat 46 State Government, and had been forced to leave the State.</u>

Unfortunately, when the DAP suggested the establishment of a Public Inquiry for the MCA President to produce proof that the Chinese in Kelantan are being oppressed and forced to leave the State, there has been complete silence from Liong Sik.

In a multi-racial, multi-religious and multi-cultural society like Malaysia, there could be no more serious allegation than the accusation that a state government is oppressing a particular racial or religious group.

If it it true that the Chinese in Kelantan are being oppressed and being forced to leave the State, then it is the duty and responsibility of every Malaysian, regardless of race, religion or political affiliation, to stand up and oppose such oppression.

The DAP takes this allegation very seriously, and we hope that the MCA leaders are equally serious in their allegations.

It is for this reason that I am prepaid to meet Dr.Ling Liong Sik, even at the MCA headquarters, for him to produce proof that the Chinese in Kelantan had been oppressed and bring forced to leave the state under the present Kelantan State Government.

If Liong Sik could produce such proof at our meeting at MCA Headquarters, I am prepaid to agree to the establishment of a joint DAP-MCA action committee to save the Chinese in Kelantan from oppression. The DAP will also agree to Gerakan participating in this Joint Action Committee to Save the Chinese from Oppression in Kelantan, and I am prepared to meet the Gerakan President, Dr.Lim Keng Yaik, at the MCA Headquarters.

It is however up to Liong Sik to invite Keng Yaik for the ‘Three Lims’ meeting at MCA Headquarters to save the Chinese in Kelantan from oppression.
 
