+++ 
title: "DAP proposes that the Kelantan State Government establishes a Public Inquiry into the allegation by MCA President that the Chinese in Kelantan are oppressed ad being forced to leave the State"
date: "1991-04-15"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Monday, April 15, 1991._

# DAP proposes that the Kelantan State Government establishes a Public Inquiry into the allegation by MCA President that the Chinese in Kelantan are oppressed ad being forced to leave the State.

MCA President, Datuk Seri Dr.Ling Liong Sik, has made a very serious allegation when he was in Johore Bahru last week, alleging that under the PAS Semangat 46 Kelantan State Government, the Chinese in Kelantan had been oppressed and are being forced to leave the State.</u>

The Chairman of the Kelantan Government Non-Muslim Affairs Committee, Datuk Haji Wan Hashim Wan Ahmad, had vehemently denied this allegation by the MCA President.

However, as this a very serious allegation made not by MCA small-fries or nonentities, but by the MCA President and a Federal Cabinet Minister, this allegation must be taken seriously.

DAP proposes that the Kelantan State Government establish a Public Inquiry Committee into the MCA President’s allegation that the Chinese in Kelantan had been oppressed and are being forced to leave the State with the formation of the PAS-Semangat 46 Government. 

The Inquiry Committee should compare members from the various political parties. The DAP is prepaid to nominate a member to the Public Inquiry Committee if invented. It would be a good idea if the MCA is also invited to nominate a member for the Inquiry Committee.

The MCA President, Datuk Dr.Ling Liong Sik, should be invited to president avidence to substantiate his allegation, and if MCA Presidents is unable to do so, the people of Kelantan and Malaysia can draw their own conclusion as to what type of a political leader he is.

I call on Liong Sik to deciare publicly whether he would appear before such a Public Inquiry Committee to present avidence to substantiate his allegation that under the PAS-Semangat 48 Kelantan State Government, the Chinese in Kelantan were oppressed and are being forced to leave the state.

If Liong Sik in not prepared to appear before such a Public Inquiry Committee, is he prepared to apologise for making an allegation he is unable to substantiate?
 
