+++ 
title: "The three Barisan Nasional ‘doctors’ have realised they have made a fool of themselves in trying to cr a great political, financial and even moral scandal of the Lim Hock Seng issue when there is nothing."
date: "1991-06-29"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Saturday, June 29, 1991:_

# The three Barisan Nasional ‘doctors’ have realised they have made a fool of themselves in trying to cr a great political, financial and even moral scandal of the Lim Hock Seng issue when there is nothing.

The three Barisan Nasional ‘doctors’, namely Penang Chief Minister, Dr.Koh Tsu Koon, Deputy Chief Minister, Dr.Ibrahim Saad and Gerakan Exco member, Dr.Kang Chin Seng, have now realised they have made a fool of themselves on the Lim Hock Seng issue have embarrassed not only themselves, but the State Government and Barisan Nasional parties.</u>

This is because after the DAP leadership had dismiss their allegation that DAP Assemblyman Lim Hock Seng had abused position as elected representative for his direct pecuniary inter as completely baseless and most frivolous, the three Barisan Nasional ‘doctors’ have not been able to come out with any evidence to support their allegation, although they continue to demand for Hock Seng resignation so that there could be a by-election not only in the Mandin State Assembly seat but also in the Bagan parliamentary seat.

The three Barisan Nasional ‘doctors’ have become three Barisan Nasional “stooges”

In the last few days however, the three Barisan Nasional ‘doctors’ must have received public feedbacks that the people for their attempt to create a great political, financial and even moral scandal of the Lim Hock Seng issue as proof of their poor political leadership qualities.

The three Barisan Nasional ‘doctors’ spent so much time to create a political, financial and even moral scandal of the Lim Hock Seng issue when there is completely nothing at all in matter, and yet the three Barisan Nasional ‘doctors’ could not the real great political, financial and even moral scandals in Penang and throughout Malaysia.

The people of Penang are beginning to wonder as to wh example of political leadership these three Barisan Nasional ‘doctors’ are setting?

In fact, the three Barisan Nasional ‘doctors’ are now being regarded as the three Barisan Nasional ‘stooges’, not unlike the fi series of the “The Three Stooges” famous for their clownings and bunglin which were so popular to film-goers in the Fifties and Sixties!

This may be the reason why three Barisan Nasional ‘doctors’ are now pulling out of the Lim Hock Seng issue, refusing say a single word any more, and asking the Penang Gerakan State Youth leader, Lim Boo Chiang, to hold the fort although Boo Chiang publicly admitted that he ‘would not make the big league’.
Yesterday, Lim Boo Chiang came out with a very fie statement attacking me.

Final opportunity to review whether the Penang Gerakan State Youth leader could ‘make the big league’
However, so long the Penang Gerakan State Youth leader no hope of ‘making the big league’, then there is not point for an to take any of his statements seriously.

This is why three days ago, I suggested a public test give the Penang Gerakan State Youth leader an opportunity to p that he had the potential of ‘making the big league’, so that can take his statements seriously.

Three days have passed, and the Penang Gerakan State Youth leader still dare not take the public tests. I am giving him a opportunity to take this test, so that the question as to whether could ‘make the big league’ could he reviewed.

The test I gave the Penang Gerakan State Youth leader this: I had said on Tuesday that I had waited for Dr.Koh Tsu Koon open his mouth on the Lim Hock Seng issue and that I was not disappointed. I made the further remark that “When the puppet-master action, the puppet-master also play his part.”

I asked the Penang Gerakan State Youth leader whether has the political expertise and perspicacity to figure out who is ‘puppet-master’ and the ‘puppet’ that I referred to.

Let me tell the Penang Gerakan State Youth leader that he could figure out the ‘puppet-master’ and the ‘puppet’ correctly, I publicly concede that he could ‘make the big league’ and I defend him against anyone who said he could not ‘make the big league’.
 
