+++ 
title: "MCA should call an extraordinary general meeting to Amend the MCA Constitution to set up an Independent  Monitoring Commission to ensure that MCA leaders do not  deviate or betray its aims and objects as stated in  Section 6 of the MCA Constitution"
date: "1991-11-29"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary – General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Friday , 29.11.1991:_

# MCA should call an extraordinary general meeting to Amend the MCA Constitution to set up an Independent  Monitoring Commission to ensure that MCA leaders do not  deviate or betray its aims and objects as stated in  Section 6 of the MCA Constitution

MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, has become so desperate that he has personally resorted to abuses in accusing the DAP of being disloyal to the nation for trying to tarnish Malaysia’s image. He even make the ridiculous allegation that the DAP is trying to frighten away foreign investors.</u>

It would appear that nowadays, to expose the MCA leaders for their greatest concession in 42 years in declaring that the Chinese primary schools do not have constitutional status or protection is an ‘act of disloyalty’.

I expect the next step for the MCA leaders would be to ask the Government and Cabinet for the detention of the DAP leaders!

Has the MCA leaders forgotten that Section 6.4 of the MCA Constitution commits them to defend and uphold human rights

I want to ask Liong Sik and the MCA leaders whether they never read their own MCA Constitution and have forgotten that Section 6.4 of the MCA Constitution commits them to defend and uphold human rights? Does Liong Sik and the MCA leaders know that human rights include freedom of speech, expression and belief?

If Liong Sik and the MCA leaders are loyal to the MCA Constitution and Section 6.4, they will never accuse the DAP of acting disloyally and ‘tarnishing the image’ of Malaysia, and create a case for the detention of DAP leaders under the Internal Security Act.

Section 6.4 of the MCA Constitution is in fact a dead letter – for no MCA leaders have ever heeded, honoured or understood it.

If the MCA is asked to state its human rights record, it is a blank piece of paper, showing that Section 6.4 of the MCA Constitution is not worth the paper it is printed.

Ever since independence in 1957, the MCA Ministers and MPs have been the first to support the violation of human rights of the UMNO leaders – whether it be the Internal Security Act, the Official Secrets Act, the Printing Presses and Publications Act, or a whole host of laws which trample on the human rights of Malaysians.

This is typical of the MCA as a classic political parasite in Malaysia.

It is clear that there is an urgent need for the calling of an extraordinary general meeting to amend the MCA Constitution to establish an Independent monitoring Commission to ensure that no MCA leader, including the MCA President, could deviate or betray its aims and objects as spelt out in Section 6 of the MCA Constitution.

The MCA’s greatest concession in its 42 – year history on the constitutional right and status of Chinese primary schools shows that the MCA is an ‘incurable political parasite’

In fact, the MCA’s greatest concession in its 42- year history on the constitutional right and status of Chinese primary schools is the latest proof that the MCA is an ‘incurable political parasite’.

For the personal and political interests of the MCA leaders, they will continue to make one concession after another as they have no political principles in the first place.

But what is pathetic about such a political parasite is that when it is exposed, it dare not say yes, nor does it dare to say no.

Thus, the MCA leadership dare not publicly confirm in one simple sentence: that the MCA recognises the constitutional right, basis, status and guarantee for Chinese primary schools and the MCA would defend, protect and uphold this constitutional right of mother – tongue education.

Nor does it dare to publicly state in one simple sentence that the MCA does not recognise the constitutional right, basis, status and guarantee for Chinese primary schools and the MCA would not defend, protect and uphold the constitutional right of mother – tongue education.  

This is why the ‘mainstream’ MCA leadership is so angry with the MCA Deputy President, Datuk lee Kim Sai, for making public the MCA’s greatest concession in its 42- year history.

Amend MCA Constitution to provide for new Section 6.17 to “ensure that MCA ceases to be a political parasite”

This is the fate of political ‘parasite’, who will continue to make concessions while continuously trying to hide such concessions from public knowledge.

The extraordinary general meeting of the MCA is very important so that the aims and objects of the MCA could be further amended to include a new Section 6.17 to read: “To ensure that the MCA ceases to be a political parasite in Barisan Nasional politics.”
 
