+++ 
title: "Letter - Proposed meeting at MCA Headquarters next Tuesday, November 27, 1991 at 11 am"
date: "1991-11-22"
tags:
+++

“YB Datuk Seri Dr. Ling Liong Sik.

President, MCA

YB Datuk Seri, 

# Proposed meeting at MCA Headquarters next Tuesday, November 27, 1991 at 11 am		

I proposed visiting MCA Headquarters next Tuesday, November 27, 1991 at 11 am to discuss with you the speech of MCA Deputy President, Datuk Lee Kim Sai, in Bukit Mertajam last week which which represented the greatest concession of the MCA in its 42-year history in declaring that there is no constitutional right, basis and guarantee for the existence of the Chinese primary schools in Malaysia.</u>

This is an issue which concerns the constitutional right, basis and guarantee and future of mother-tongue education which should transcend party interest, whether MCA and DAP.

I am proposing to meet you as this is a matter of such grave and far-reaching import. Please let me know whether the proposed date and time is convenient for you. I am open to another mutually convenient date.

Thank you.

Your Sincerely,

Lim Kit Siang

Secretary-General”

The DAP leaders are reasonable people, and this is why I had asked Liong Sik to propose an alternative date if next Tuesday is not suitable for him.

Why the MCA leadership is unable to end the whole controversy with a clear-cut policy declaration that the existence of Chinese primary schools is founded on Constitutional basis and guarantee.

After the controversy for over a week, the most disturbing question is why the MCA leadership is unable to end the whole controversy with a clear-cut policy declaration that the existence of Chinese primary schools is founded on constitutional basis and guarantee?

I call on every Malaysian Chinese who is concerned about the future and constitutional status of mother-tongue education to ask themselves this question. This is because once everyone asked themselves this question, then they will be convinced that the MCA leadership has indeed something to hide in making their greatest concession in its 42-year party history.
 
