+++ 
title: "MCA Presidential Council next Tuesday should decide whether to support the establishment of a Public Inquiry on the oppression of Chinese in Kelantan or dissociate itself from the MCA President’s allegation"
date: "1991-04-18"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling jaya on Thursday, 18th April 1991: _

# MCA Presidential Council next Tuesday should decide whether to support the establishment of a Public Inquiry on the oppression of Chinese in Kelantan or dissociate itself from the MCA President’s allegation 

The MCA has directed its two members in Kelantan who have been appointed to the committee on non-Muslim affairs set up by the PAS-Semangat 46 State Government to withdraw from the Committee.</u>

The MCA Kelantan State Chairman, Datuk Wong CHoe Wah, said that Khoo Beng Ee and Hang Hip Kuan could face disciplinary action by the MCA of they did not do so.

The issue the people are interested in is not the position of Khoo Beng Ee and Hang Hip Kuan on the Kelantan State Government non-Muslim Affairs committee, but the official stand of the MCA national leadership on the allegation by the MCA President, Datuk Dr.Ling Liong Sik, in Johore last week that the Chinese in Kelantan had been oppressed by the PAS-Semangat 46 Kelantan State Government and are being to leave the state.

I had a suggested that as Liong Sik had made a very serious charge on the oppression of the Chinese in Kelantan, a Public Inquiry should be established to inquire into the allegations, with Liong Sik presenting the evidence of the Chinese in Kelantan being oppressed and forced to leave the State.

There has however been complete silence from the MCA front on this proposal for a Public Inquiry into Liong Sik’s allegations about the oppression of the Chinese in Kelantan.

The MCA Presidential Council next Tuesday should decide whether to support the establishment of a Public Inquiry into Liong Sik’s allegation of oppression of the Chinese in Kelantan by the PAS-Semangat 46 government, or to dissociate itself from Liong Sik’s allegation because the MCA could not furnish any proof or evidence to substantiate the MCA President’s allegation.

If Liong Sik cannot produce any proof before a Public Inquiry to substantiate his allegation that the Chinese in Kelantan are being oppressed and forced to leave the State, then he should have the grace, humility and responsibility to withdraw such a grave allegation. Liong Sik wants to appear a great champion of the Chinese when he made such a serious allegation. But what type of a champion is this when he dare not follow it up by declaring his willingness and preparedness to substantiate his allegation before a Public Inquiry anytime?

Lim Kit Siang

It is not easy under Malaysian conditions to found and sustain an opposition political movement.

DAP leaders, members and supporters who had contributed to the DAP’s ability to sustain its political fire for the last 25 years have reason to take pride that they have made a great contribution to the Malaysian political process.

This is because although the DAP remained in the Opposition in the last 25 years, our contribution is second to none in the battle for democracy, justice, equality and a united multi-racial, multi-lingual, multi-cultural and multi-religious Malaysia.

The fight for freedom, justice and equality is never-ending, and the DAP has an even greater historic task in the future: the promotion and sustenance for a two-coalition system to break the mould of Malaysian politics and offer and alternative to the politics of the Barisan National.
 
