+++ 
title: "Has the KGN been exempted from submitting an EIA report for the 400 ha land reclamation project at Tanjong Tokong?"
date: "1992-03-04"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Loader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Wednesday, 4th March 1992:_

# Has the KGN been exempted from submitting an EIA report for the 400 ha land reclamation project at Tanjong Tokong?

The Koperasi Gabongan Negri Pulau Pinang (KGN) chairman, Datuk Haji Shamsuri Mohamed Salleh, said in today’s press that KGN-PDG Holdings Sdn. Bhd. a KGN subsidiary, is expected to finalise the conceptual plan of its 400 ha land reclamation project in Tanjung Tokong in two months time.</u>

Datuk Shamsuri hoped that the conceptual plan will be approved by the state government for work to start before the end of this year on the $300 million land reclamation  project.

What is surprising is that Datuk Shamsuri has made no mention of an Environment Impact Assessment study of the project whatsoever. The State Government should explain whether the KGN has been exempted from submitting an EIA report on the Tanjong Tokonq reclamation project.

If not, when KGN would submit its EIA report, and whether the EIA report would be made public for interested parties to submit their views and make representations to the government, especially those 
who are concerned about floods, pollution and siltation in the Tanjung Tokong/Tanjung Bunqah area from the land reclamation project.
 
