+++ 
title: "I believe the resurfacing of the Vijandran pornographic videotapes is related to the $130 million MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal"
date: "1992-07-23"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Thursday, July 23, 1992:_

# I believe the resurfacing of the Vijandran pornographic videotapes is related to the $130 million MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal

The resurfacing of the Vijandran pornographic videotapes in various parts of the country is not accidental but must be pre-planned.</u>

I want to make it very clear however that no one in the DAP has anything to do with the resurfacing of the Vijandran pornographic videotapes.

I believe that the resurfacing of the Vijandran pornographic videotapes is related to the $130 million MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal.

The resurfacing of the Vijandran pornographic videotapes is in the same category of incidents like the burglary into MAIKA office in Kuala Lumpur on 24th May 1992 and the death threat which a MIC national leader gave to the Negri Sembilan MIC State Chairman, Datuk M.Muthupalaniapan in Kuala Lumpur on 16th June 1992.

I understand that the police had not been able to get the co-operation of the MIC Headquarters security guard, Rajendran, who claimed that he was assaulted during the burglary into the MAIKA office and should be able to identify the burglars.

This reminds me of a similar problem faced by the police when they investigated into the burglary of the Vijandran pornographic videotapes, pictures and negatives from the house of D.P.Vijandran.

On 10th January 1990, the Attorney-General, Tan Sri Abu Talib, had recounted the background of the Vijandran pornographic videotapes burglary to justify the destruction of the eleven Vijandran pornographic videotapes and 2,000 pictures and negatives.

This is the background that was given by Tan Sri Abu Talib on the burglary: On August 3, 1988 at 3.45p.m., the police upon receiving a 999 call that there was a robbery in Vijandran’s house, rushed to his house. Vijandran was not at home at that time.

In his police statement later, Vijandran said the safe in his bedroom was missing.

Two months later, in the course of investigations, police arrested four suspects, including a nephew of Vijandran, and detained them for questioning.

Eleven tapes and four envelopes containing photographs and negatives were recovered, believed to be the contents of the safe.

Tan Sri Abu Talib said he had agreed with police recommendations that it was unsafe to proceed against anyone due to lack of evidence and identity of the suspects.

Tan Sri Abu Talib had told the press conference in January 1990 that Vijandran’s mother could not identify any of the four suspects arrested although Vijandran had reported that the robbery took place in daylight on August 3, 1988.

Tan Sri Abu Talib said: “It is most unfortunate that the material witness could not identify any of the suspects although the robbery was done in daylight...I must say that one of the suspects is his nephew...”

Is Samy Vellu prepared to swear at the Marimman Temple that he never knew that Vijandran was involved in the pornographic videotape scandal until Karpal produced the videotape in Parliament on Monday?

MIC Secretary-General, Datuk G.Vadiveloo, said yesterday that since “tangible evidence” had been produced in Parliament, Vijandran’s position in the MIC has become untenable and that someone would talk to Vijandran over the matter.

Vadiveloo should explain what he means by ‘tangoble evidence’. Has he had a viewing, as President of Senate, of the Vijandran pornographic videotape produced by Karpal Singh in Parliament to be convinced of its veracity?

In any event, isn’t it true that the top MIC leadership, especially the MIC President, Datuk Seri S.Samy Vellu, had such ‘tangible evidence’ all along and yet supported and defended the ‘innocence’ of Vijandran?

How Vijandran leaves MIC is now completely irrelevant. The question the entire MIC leadership must explain to the MIC members, the Indian community and the Malaysian people is how it could give full support to Vijandran when top MIC leaders knew all along about the truth of the allegations made by Karpal Singh in Parliament in December 1989 about the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal?

Is Datuk Samy Vellu prepared to go to the Mariamman Temple in Kuala Lumpur and swear that he never knew until Karpal produced the videotape in Parliament last Monday that Vijandran was involved in the Vijandran pornographic videotape scandal?
 
