+++ 
title: "Telling falsehoods and lies has become the second nature of Dr.Lim Keng Yaik and Gerakan leaders"
date: "1992-01-06"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Monday, 6th January 1992:_

# Telling falsehoods and lies has become the second nature of Dr.Lim Keng Yaik and Gerakan leaders

The speeches by the Gerakan President, Dr.Lim Keng Yaik and other Gerakan leaders at the Gerakan Nobong Tebal dinner on Saturday night is the latest proof that telling falsehoods and lies has become the second nature of Dr.Lim Keng Yaik and Gerakan leaders.</u>

I would normally not respond to these type of speeches, but it is important that the people must be not misled into thinking that what Dr.Lim Keng Yaik and other Gerakan leaders say publicly are the truth or have any basis of fact.

DAP leaders are always prepared to defend and justify what they say publicly when challenged, for what we say are based on facts, truth and reason. This is not the case with Dr.Lim Keng Yaik and Gerakan leaders, who can say anything that comes into the mind when they are on the stage-and this is why, they always run away when challenged to prove the truth of their statements or allegations.

I will just give one such a example of Keng Yaik’s speech on Saturday night-when the Gerakan President accused me of “attacking Dr.Koh Tsu Koon for only knowing how to attend dinners and do not know how to serve the people”.

Is Keng Yaik prepared to publicly apologise if he can prove his allegation against me?

I challenge Keng Yaik to produce the evidence that I had attacked Dr.Koh in saying that “he is only good at attending dinners but do not know how to serve the people”. If Keng Yaik is unable to produce the evidence to substantiate his allegation, is he prepared to publicly withdraw his baseless allegation and apologise to me?

I do not expect Keng Yaik to produce any evidence, for there is none, nor do I expect him to have the humility to apologise for his lies, for this is not the first time he had been caught ‘red-handed’ and proved to be telling lies about the DAP.

I also find the speech by the Gerakan Penang State Chairman, Tan Ghim Hwa, most pathetic. He has ‘stolen-lock, stock and barrel’ the MCA’s ‘secret weapon’ against the DAP in the past two general elections, trying to make the believe that DAP leaders had misused various party funds for their individual interest, but which had been so utterly rejected by the voters that no MCA leader  dare to contest in a Chinese-dominated constitutency.

Some MCA Youth leaders have been lodged multiple police reports against the DAP over the same issue to get huge newspaper headlines for they expect some editors and reporters to forget the previous police reports.

All Malaysians know that if there is a shadow of a possibility that DAP leaders had been guilty of criminal breach of trust and misuse of public funds, DAP leaders would have been arrested and charged in court long ago. The very fact that no action had been taken by the police despite the multiple police reports is the best answer to the MCA allegations, which had now been taken over wholesale by the Gerakan Penang leadership.

I congratulate Tan Ghim Hwa for accepting as ‘treasure’ what the MCA has already found is sheer ‘rubbish’. Let Tan Ghim Hwa keep the ‘rubbish’.

Dr.Koh Tsu Koon is a weak and impotent Penang Chief Minister if he could not immediately remove Kamaruzzaman Shariff as MPPP President after Dr.Lim Keng Yaik had blamed him for being the chief cause of the ‘decadence and impotence’ of MPPP

What the people of Penang are interested in however is in Dr.Lim Keng Yaik’s repetition at the dinner on Saturday of his interview statement two weeks ago, condemning the MPPP as ‘decadence and impotence’, and putting the chief blame on the MPPP President, Kamaruzzaman Shariff, ashe is a civil servant who has no compassion for the people.

The Penang Chief Minister, Dr.Koh TSu Koon, should state whether he agrees with his Gerakan chief, Dr.Lim Keng Yaik, that the MPPP is ‘decadent and impotent’ primarily because of the MPPP President. Kamaruzzaman Shariff.

If Dr,Koh agrees with Dr.Lim Keng Yaik, than he must be a very weak and impotent Chief Minister if he cannot immediately remove Kamaruzzaman Shariff as MPPP President.

If Keng Yaik is right, then Kamaruzzaman Shariff should have been removed as MPPP President two weeks ago when the Gerakan President first made the charge that the MPPP is ‘decadent and impotent’.

Can Tsu Koon tell what are his difficulties in removing Kamaruzzaman Shariff as MPPP President?

In fact, if Keng Yaik’s charge of ‘decadence and impotence’ against the MPPP are right, then the appointment of 20 of the former MPPP Councillors for 1992 is another sign of Dr.Koh Tsu Koon’s weakness and impotence.
 
