+++ 
title: "Penang DAP to send observers to attend MPPP and MPSP meetings"
date: "1992-02-20"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Thursday, 20th February 1992: _

# Penang DAP to send observers to attend MPPP and MPSP meetings

The Penang DAP State Committee, at its meeting last night, decided to send observers to attend MPPP and MPSP meetings to hold a watching brief for the ratepayers of both the Penang island and Seberang Prai, to monitor how the people’s interests are being looked after by the Councillors in the two Municipal Councils.</u>

The Penang DAP State Committee has set up a seven-man committee to observe and monitor the MPPP meetings, headed by the Assemblyman for Paya Terubong, Sdr. Teoh Teik Huat, and comprises Sdr. Chow Kon Yeow, Assemblyman for Pengkalan Kota, Sdr. Cheah Teik Ho, Assemblyman for Kampong Kolam, Sdr. Tan Loo Jit, Assemblyman for Batu Lancang, Sdr. K. Balasundram, Assemblyman for Dato Kramat, Sdr. Ong Hock Aun, Assemblyman for Ayer Itam and Sdr. Gooi Siong Kin, Penang State Organising Secretary.

The Penang DAP State Committee has also set up a seven-man committee to observe and monitor the MPSP meetings, headed by the MP for Bagan and Assemblyman for Mak Mandin, Sdr. Lim Hock Seng, and comprising Sdr. Chian Heng Kai, MP for Bukit Mertajam and Assemblyman for Bukit Tengah, Sdr. Phee Boon Poh, Assemblyman for Bagan Jermal, Sdr. Wong Hung Yoke, Assemblyman for Berapit, Sdr. Chin Kooi Thoon, Assemblyman for Jawi and Penang Assistant State Organising Secretary, Sdr. Pow Kim Seng.

The Local Government Act has made it very clear that local council meetings should be held in public and not in secret, and I hope that the MPPP, under Tan Ghim Hwa, and the MPSP, would comply with the law.

The two DAP committees to observe and monitor the MPPP and MPSP meetings will also ask for minutes of the meetings and other necessary documents in order to ensure that the MPPP and MPSP Councillors are accountable to the ratepayers.

DAP’s Ninth and Tenth Proposal for the clean-up of the ‘decadence and impotence’ of MPPP

Following on the eight earlier DAP proposals, I wish to make the DAP’s ninth and tenth proposal for the clean-up of the ‘decadence and impotence’ of the MPPP with the appointment of Tan Ghim Hwa MPPP President.

DAP’s Ninth Proposal: Assurance of equal and fair treatment to all ratepayers, regardless of politics

Tan Ghim Hwa is the MPPP President of all ratepayers in Penang Island and not MPPP President for Gerakan, MCA, MIC and UMNO members only, and he should give an assurance that the MPPP gives equal and fair treatment to everyone, regardless of politics.

Municipal service to the people and development must be recognised as a right of every rate-payer and party politics or political support should never come into the picture of any MPPP service or development at all.

This is actually elementary and need not be mentioned. However, such an assurance from the new MPPP President is necessary, as the new Penang State Government has gone back its word that the appointment of Municipal Councillors would be based on merit, and not be based on quota to be divided among the Barisan Nasional parties.

If the MPPP services are also treated as a Barisan Nasional monopoly like the appointment of MPPP Councillors, then the MPPP will never gain the support, confidence and co-operation of the people of the Penang city and island.

DAP’s Tenth Proposal: MPPP should hold regular meet-the-people sessions to hear the problems, complaints and grievances of ratepayers.

DAP’s tenth proposal for the elimination of ‘decadence and impotence’ of the MPPP is that the MPPP, led by the MPPP President, should hold regular meet-the-people sessions to hear the problems, complaints and grievances of the ratepayers.

This will ensure that the MPPP will have a human and friendly face, and not as at present, so inaccessible, bureacratic and unaccountable.
 
