+++ 
title: "DAP calls on Finance Minister, Anwar Ibrahim, to explain the long delay in taking action against the culprits responsible for the Union Paper Holdings Bhd. Shares scandal"
date: "1993-08-15"
tags:
+++

_Speech (Part 3)  by Parliament Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the Perak DAP State Convention held in Ipoh on Sunday, August 15, 1993 at 10a.m._

# DAP calls on Finance Minister, Anwar Ibrahim, to explain the long delay in taking action against the culprits responsible for the Union Paper Holdings Bhd. Shares scandal

It is coming to two months since the Union Paper Holdings Bhd. Shares scandal and despite assurances given by the Finance Minister, Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim, to the DAP in Parliament last month that he was satisfied with the actions being taken by the various regulatory agencies, no one had been arrested or prosecuted for the offence of short-selling yet.</u>

When the DAP pursued the Union Paper scandal in Parliament, we were informed by the Deputy Finance Minister, Datuk Ghani Othman that Interpol had also been contacted to assist in the investigations.

Anwar Ibrahim should explain the reasons for the long delay in taking action against the culprits responsible for the Union Paper Holdings Bhd. Shares scandal.

Last week there was a report quoting sources as saying that the Malaysian regulatory authorities have completed their investigation into the Union Paper shares scandal, following assistance from Interpol in Hong Kong and the Monetary Authority of Singapore.

Unless the regulatory authorities like the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange, the Commercial Crime Police, the Registrar of Companies and the Securities Commission act swiftly to apprehend and prosecute those responsible for the Union Paper shares scandal, the investing public both local and international would regard the KLSE as a casino and not have confidence in the KLSE as a fair, orderly and transparent marketplace.

In this connection, the investing public have also a right to know what is the position with regard to the lifting of the suspension of the Union Paper shares.

The Deputy Finance Minister, Datuk Ghani Othman said early this month that the KLSE had made a recommendation on the lifting of suspension of trading of Union Paper shares to the Securities Commission.

Why is the Securities Commission sitting on the KLSE’s recommendation?

DAP calls on the Malaysian Government to set up a special unit to claim compensation from the Japanese Government for ‘sex slave’ victims of the Japanese Imperialist Army during the Second World War


At last year’s Perak DAP State Convention, I expresses the DAP’s support for the claims by the ‘sex slave’ victims of the Japanese Imperialist Army during the Second World War and called on the Japanese Government to publicly apologise and pay compensation for the ‘comfort women’ brothels in Malaysia as well as in other Asian countries.

Since then, the Japanese Government has admitted the atrocities committed by the Japanese Imperialist Army against ‘sex slave’ victims in Malaysia and other countries during the second world war, and the new Japanese Prime Minister, Morihiro Hosokawa had acknowledge Tokyo’s responsibilities in waging a ‘war of aggression’ during World War II.

DAP calls on the Malaysian Government to set up a special unit to claim compensation from the Japanese Government for ‘sex slave’ victims of the Japanese Imperialist Army in Malaysia during the Japanese Occupation.
 
