+++ 
title: "Mahathir’s statement that government can only resolve KL’s flash floods problem which crippled the capital two days ago if the people pay more taxes most shocking and irresponsible"
date: "1993-06-09"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Wednesday, June 9, 1993:_

# Mahathir’s statement that government can only resolve KL’s flash floods problem which crippled the capital two days ago if the people pay more taxes most shocking and irresponsible				   

The statement by the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, that the government can only resolve Kuala Lumpur’s flash floods problem which crippled the capital two days ago if the people pay more taxes most shocking and irresponsible.</u>

Although the flash flood in Kuala Lumpur two days ago was one of the biggest in the capital’s recent history, flash floods which immediately  caused massive traffic jams in the capital has become a common occurrence.

The Federal government, which has direct responsibility over the Federal Territory, must bear full responsibility for poor planning and it cannot shirk away its responsibility by demanding more taxes from the people.

If Kuala Lumpur’s flash floods problem is not dealt with seriously and immediately, not only the people of Kuala Lumpur will suffer but the national economy and image would also br gravely damaged.

Imagine what would be the repercussions if in 1998, Commonwealth Games are disrupted because of massive flash floods like the one that hit Kula Lumpur two days’ ago? Malaysia will then be ‘swimming’ in a blaze of adverse international publicity!

In fact, if last Monday’s flash floods had hit the Federal capital just before Malaysia made its bid last year to host the 1998 Commonwealth Games, Malaysia would stand no chance of beating Adelaide and awarded the 1998 Commonwealth Games.

The delay in the allocation of the RM 15 million to Kuala Lumpur City Hall for its river maintains programme, resulting in the delay in the tender for clearing heavily silted rivers which is a major cause of flash floods, is the problem of a government which is not sufficiently sensitized to the development needs of the people.

In preparing Kuala Lumpur for the 1998 Commonwealth Games, RM 15 million is clearly inadequate to ensure that the Federal capital has s drainage system which can ensure that Kuala Lumpur does not become a ‘Venice’ when there are a few hours of downpour.
 
