+++ 
title: "DAP calls on Federal and Selangor State Governments to set the example by assuming their responsibility for the Bright Sparklers fireworks explosion in Sungai Buloh in May 1991 by paying compensation to the victims or their families"
date: "1993-04-18"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Sunday, April 18, 1993:_

# DAP calls on Federal and Selangor State Governments to set the example by assuming their responsibility for the Bright Sparklers fireworks explosion in Sungai Buloh in May 1991 by paying compensation to the victims or their families	
					
THE Royal Commission of Inquiry into the Bright Sparklers Sdn. Bhd. fireworks explosion in Sungai Buloh in May 1991 had found the fireworks factory and fire which killed 22 people and injured 103 others.</u>

The Royal Commission concluded that Bright Sparklers Sdn. Bhd. Had violated many laws to carry out a dangerous operation, caused much human misery and that it must not escape prosecution.

It also concluded that Bright Sparklers Sdn. Bhd. Was able to continue their illegal operation undetected for such a long time because certain government departments had failed to perform their duties properly as required under the various legislations pertaining to the siting, construction, maintenance and operations of the factory.

The departments cited by the Royal Commission of Inquiry included the local authorities, the State Government, the Pharmacy Department and the Fire Services Department.

It is surprising that the Attorney-General, Tan Sri Abu Talib Othman, said yesterday that he had not received a copy of the Royal Commission of Inquiry Report which was handed over to the Yang di Pertuan Agong on Friday.

The minister for local Government, Datuk Dr. Ting Chew Peh, should act with a greater sense of urgency and seriousness and ensure that there should be no more delay in forwarding the Royal commission of Inquiry Report to the Attorney-General for his follow-up action against Bright sparklers Sdn. Bhd.

As both the Federal and Selangor State Governments had also been cited for negligence for the fireworks factory explosion and fire, DAP calls on them to set a good example by assuming responsibility as found by the Royal Commission of Inquiry by paying compensation to the victims or their families.
 
