+++ 
title: "DAP calls on Cabinet to approve a new salary revision for the Police to ensure an efficient, honest and people-oriented law-and-order force in Malaysia."
date: "1993-03-22"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Monday, March 22, 1993:_

# DAP calls on Cabinet to approve a new salary revision for the Police to ensure an efficient, honest and people-oriented law-and-order force in Malaysia.

The Inspector-General of Police, Tan Sri Hanif Omar, said last week that the police have submitted their request for a salary revision to the Public Services Department.</u>

Tan Sri Hanif said that the police should be paid better wages as they had to cope with express, make quick decisions and be aware of the laws. He hoped the police would be able to recruit better-calibre applicants, motivate those already serving in the force and further enhance policing.

DAP supports the case for a new salary revision for the Police force. In the debate on the royal address in Parliament last April, the DAP had called for better pay and service conditions for the police so as further police standards in the country.

The Cabinet should respond positively to the request for new salary revisions by the Malaysian Police, and to agree in principle to its request, leaving to the Public Services Department to work out the details.

The DAP will support a supplementary estimates by the government requesting Parliament for additional funds a result of new salary revision for the police.

 
