+++ 
title: "Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamad should sack Liong Sik as Transport Minister if the MCA President is incapable and not interested in resolving the scandalous public counter service at the Penang JPJ"
date: "1993-07-14"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Wednesday, 14th July 1993:_

# Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamad should sack Liong Sik as Transport Minister if the MCA President is incapable and not interested in resolving the scandalous public counter service at the Penang JPJ

Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed should sack Datuk Seri Dr. Ling Liong Sik as Transport Minister if the MCA President is incapable and not interested in resolving the scandalous public counter service of the Penang JPJ for over- three months.</u>

Promise of better and snore efficient service in Penang JPJ following computerisation has turned into a prolonged nightmare for the public, where renewing road tax or driving/riding licences have literally become a public ''torture' of the motorists. Agents have been reduced to telling motorists that they have to wait for two weeks or even longer to renew road tax or driving/riding licences.

What is even more scandalous than the atrocious public counter service at the Penang JPJ in the past three months is the utter indifference of the Transport Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Ling Liong Sik,, who has shown that he dares not care whether the JPJ offices in Penang or other parts of the country operate efficiently or he is only interested in turning the 'lame-duck' MCA Deputy President, Datuk Lee Kim Sai, into a 'dish' in his in his MCA ‘politics of menu’.

Liong Sik should make an immediate trip to Penang JPJ and see for himself the scandalous public counter service being provided to motorists.

The Penang MCA and MCA Youth have proved to be utterly irrelevant to the needs of the people of Penang when they dare not even send an appeal to Liong Sik to come to Penang to resolve the Penang JPJ problem. It is no wonder that, the MCA was completely wiped out in Penang in the last general elections.

The people of Penang have a right, to demand that Liong Sik should rush to Penang to resolve the scandalous public counter service of Penang JPJ.

The DAP hereby gives advance notice and warning that unless Liong Sik come to Penang immediately and resolve the JPJ Penang problem, Penang DAP MPs would make this into a major issue in the Parliamentary meeting beginning next Monday.
 
