+++ 
title: "Koh Tsu Koon’s priority task is to become a Chief Minister with real power powers and not to see my shadows all over the Tangjong Bungah constituency"
date: "1993-04-05"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Monay, 5th April , 1993:_

# Koh Tsu Koon’s priority task is to become a Chief Minister with real power powers and not to see my shadows all over the Tangjong Bungah constituency.

My Statement at the DAP Tanjong Bungah ‘Tanjong 3’ dinner on Saturday night that Dr. Koh Tsu Koon id the most jittery and nervous Chief Minister on Mentri Besar in Malaysian history has been further proven on Saturday night itself.</u>

Just because the DAP Tanjong Bungah was organizing a dinner last Saturday, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon had to organise a special Gerakan function in Jelutong as a counter.

Let me advise Dr. Kog Tsu Koon that his priority task is to become a Penang Chief Minister with real powers, and not to see my shadows all over the Tanjong Bungah constituency – whether from the Chief Minister’s Office or from Jelutong.

Penang DAP is prepared to give him all assistance so that he could become a Penang Chief Minister with real powers – but this cannot take place if he is so obsessed with seeing my shadows all over Tanjong Bungah when I had not been making any visits to Tanjong Bungah.

His obsession reaches the height of absurdity when his political secretary, the Machang Bubuk State Assemblyman Goik Hock Lai, publicly confessed that one of his primary task is to ‘moniter my movements’ in Tanjonng Bungah.

I do not knoe whether it is an abuse and misuse of public funds for a Chief Minister to appoint a political ?to monitor my ‘shadows’, but Dr.Koh Tsu Koon has undeniably are ?political history when he has given his political secretary such??

I suggest that Goik Hock Lai should give a ?? to the next Penang State assembly meeting of the progress ??? special mission.

I am prepared to meet Dr. Koh Tsu Koon to??? how the Penang DAP can help him to become a Penang Chief Minister ?? real powers, but this will depend on whether he dares to??? Penang DAP’s offer of help or not.
 
