+++ 
title: "Call on Liong Sik to explain why the inquiry into the second Subang International Airport fire had been ‘swept under the carpet’"
date: "1993-03-19"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Friday, 19th November 1993:_

# Call on Liong Sik to explain why the inquiry into the second Subang International Airport fire had been ‘swept under the carpet’

While the country has been told of an inquiry into the third Subang International Airport security scandal in less than a year, the people has a right to demand an explanation from the Minister of Transport, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, as t why the inquiry into the second Subang International Airport, fire had been ‘swept under the carpet’.</u>

Malaysians can still remember that at the time of the Subang International Airport Control Tower fire last October, Liong Sik declared that the Transport Ministry would reveal all details of the, inquiry into the second airport fire.

Liong Sik publicly promised an open inquiry, stating: “We do not hide things. Everybody has the right to know what happened.”

The Cabinet also decided that the report of the inquiry into the second Subang International Airport fire should be submitted as soon as possible.

The Deputy Prime Minister, Ghafar Baba, said on the third day of the airport control tower fire: “We want the report to submitted to as within a week or two and there is no such thing as a postponement or delay.”

Five months have passed, and the inquiry report has either been hushed up or ‘swept under tile carpet’, despite promises of open and immediate inquiry findings.

Corporation and privatisation have virtually destroyed the principle of Ministerial responsibility and accountability, and this is why Liong Sik is behaving as if the third Subang International Airport security scandal in less than a year is none of his business!

Will the people get to know of the results of the second Subang International Airport fire only after there is a fourth Subang International Airport security scandal?
 
