+++ 
title: "First Job of Liong Sik's MCA Task Force to regain lost seats in Penang is to make urgent visit to Penang JPJ Office on Monday and resolve the scandalous jam at the public service counters or it might as well dissolve itself"
date: "1993-07-09"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP  Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Friday, July 9, 1993:_

# First Job of Liong Sik's MCA Task Force to regain lost seats in Penang is to make urgent visit to Penang JPJ Office on Monday and resolve the scandalous jam at the public service counters or it might as well dissolve itself 

Yesterday, MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, announced the establishment of a MCA Task Force headed by himself to regain lost seats in Penang. Other members of the Task Force are the 'lame-cluck' Deputy President, Datuk Lee Kim Sai, and other's like Dr.Sak Cheng Lum, Datuk. Wong See Wah, Datuk Chan Kong Choy, and Ting. Ong Ka Ting.</u>

The first job of the MCA Task Force headed by Liong Sik is to make an urgent visit to the Penang JPJ office on Monday and resolve the scandalous jam at the public service counters at the Penang JPJ.

Renewing road tax or driving/riding licences at the Penang JPJ offices have become a great 'torture' to motorists - all because of the incompetencer indifference and. irresponsibility of the Transport Minister, who has turned a deaf ear and blind eye to the Penang JPJ scandal.

Agents are telling motorists that they have to wait for two weeks or even longer to renew road tax or driving/riding licences.

JPJ promised faster service following computerisation of JPJ in April, after some 'teething problems' had been sorted in the first few weeks. More than three months have passed since the computerisation, arid JPJ could not be having 'teething problems' any more, but serious problems requiring major surgery!

Liong Sik can completely forget about the MCA task force to re-capture the MCA lost seats in Penang in the last general elections if he cannot resolve the Penang JPJ problems immediately.

The Penang public have suffered long enough, and the DAP is giving the Transport Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Ling Liong Sik and the MCA Task Force to recapture lost seats in Penang up to Monday to resolve the Penang JPJ scandal and. ensure an efficient JPJ counter-service so that motorists can get prompt, service for renewal of road tax and licences within an hour.

If the MCA Task Force to regain lost MCA seats in Penang cannot resolve the Penang JPJ problem, then the MCA Task Force might as well dissolve itself immediately, for it would instantly lose all credibility in Penang!
 
