+++ 
title: "DAP to move an emergency motion in Parliament tomorrow on the position of Ghafar Baba as Deputy Prime Minister as to whether he enjoys the confidence of Parliament"
date: "1993-08-03"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Tuesday, August 3, 1993:_

# DAP to move an emergency motion in Parliament tomorrow on the position of Ghafar Baba as Deputy Prime Minister as to whether he enjoys the confidence of Parliament

DAP to move an emergency motion in Parliament tomorrow on the position of Ghafar Baba as Deputy Prime Minister as to whether he enjoys the confidence of Parliament.</u>

DAP MPs have made this decision as the announcement by the Chairman of the Backbenchers’s Club (BBC), Shahidan Kssim last Thursday that the majority of UMNO MPs to nominate the Finance Minister, Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim, to contest the post of UMNO Deputy president so as to become Deputy Prime Minister tantamount to an open expression of no confidence by the majority of UMNO MPs in Ghafar Baba as Deputy Prime Minister.

This has created a political, government, parliamentary and constitutional crisis, as the withdrawal of support by the majority of UMNO MPs, who form the backbone of Barisan Nasional MPs, has compromised and undermined the position of Ghafar Baba as Deputy Prime Minister and raised the question as to whether he could effectively, honorably and credibly continue as Deputy Prime Minister.

It would be politically and constitutionally improper for Ghafar Baba to continue as Deputy Prime Minister when he has lost the confidence of Parliament as signified by withdrawal of support by the majority of UMNO MPs. Otherwise, Ghafar Baba would become a ‘lame duck’ Deputy Prime Minister for the next four months, not only ineffective in government and inside the country, but project a bad international image for the nation as well.

DAP MPs feel strongly that before Dewan Rakyat adjourns sine dine tomorrow until the budget meeting next October, Parliament must make clear as to whether Ghafar Baba still commands the confidence of Parliament, and in particular the majority of UMNO MPs.

If Ghafar Baba still commands the confidence of Parliament, and in particular the majority of the UMNO MPs, he can continue as Deputy Prime Minister with full credibility, effectiveness and authority.

On the other hand, if he has last the confidence of Parliament, and in particular the UMNO MPs, Ghafar Baba can gratefull resign as Deputy Prime Minister so that he would not become a ‘lame duck’ Deputy Prime Minister for the next four months and allow a new Deputy Prime Minister to be appointed immediately.

DAP MPs want to make it very clear that in submitting this emergency motion, the DAP has no intention whatsoever of interfering in the UMNO ‘Battle of the Decade’. DAP had always regarded UMNO power struggles as strictly UMNO affairs and we had never been interested in getting involved either with the Ghafar Baba camp or the Anwar Ibrahim camp.

However, the issue of the effectiveness, credibility and authority of the Deputy Prime Minister where he has lost the confidence of Parliament because of the withdrawal of open support by the majority of UMNO MPs is not a UMNO party affair, but a parliamentary, governmental and constitutional issue of national consequence.

Finally, I wish to thank the Deputy Housing and Local Government Minister, Datuk Daud Taha, for his proposal that the DAP could introduce a motion on whether Ghafar Baba commands the confidence of Parliament during the debate on the Local Government Amendment Bill yesterday.
 
