+++ 
title: "Call on Tsu Koon to condemn ‘samseng politics’ like the tearing of DAP ‘s ‘Be A Voter for Tanjong 3’ posters in Jelutong and Sungai Pinang areas by Gerakan members"
date: "1993-08-09"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Monday, August 9, 1993:_

# Call on Tsu Koon to condemn ‘samseng politics’ like the tearing of DAP ‘s ‘Be A Voter for Tanjong 3’ posters in Jelutong and Sungai Pinang areas by Gerakan members

Penang Chief Minister, Dr.  Koh Tsu Koon should condemn ‘samseng politics’ like the tearing of DAP ‘s ‘Be A Voter for Tanjong 3’ posters in Jelutong and Sungai Pinang areas by Gerakan members last Friday.</u>

The Penang Gerakan leaders should declare whether they are so frightened by DAP’s Tanjong 3 project that they have to resort to ‘samseng politics’ as to send their workers to tear DAP’s ‘Be A Voter for Tanjong 3’ poster?

DAP will not countenance ‘ samseng politics’, and I have no hesitation in condemning the action of any DAP member in tearing any Gerakan poster. Tsu Koon prepared to do the same?

It is clear that Penang Gerakan leaders do not want Malaysians who have reached 21 years to register as voter so that they could exercise their right to vote in the next general elections, for they have no confidence that these new voters would support the Gerakan.

However, young Malaysians who have not registered as voters should not allow the ‘samseng politics’ of Gerakan to deter them to register as a voter, as there are only 16 days left to register if they are to be able to vote in the next general elections and decide whether there is going to a new DAP Penang State Government.

If Tsu Koon is not a ‘puppet’, why must he devote virtually his entire speech on Saturday night on the subject?


On Saturday night, Tsu Koon virtually devoted his entire speech at the Gerakan Prai Branch 25th anniversary dinner to deal with the allegation that he is not a ‘puppet’.

If Tsu Koon is not a ‘puppet’, why must he devote virtually his entire speech on Saturday night on the subject?

This was like Tsu Koon declaring in the Penang State Assembly last month that he was the leader in the Penang State Government. If he is indeed the leader, then there is no need for him to make such a declaration.

Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir did not have to stand up in Parliament to declare that he is the leader in government. Similarly, in his years as Penang Chief Minister, Tun Dr. Lim Chong Eu did not have to stand up in the Penang State Assembly to declare that he is the leader in the Penang State Government. 

If Mahathir had to declare in Parliament that he is the leader in government and Chong Eu had to declare in the Penang State Assembly that he was the leader in the Penang State Government, then they could not be ‘leaders’ at all!
 
