+++ 
title: "Liong Sik’s attempt to question DAP Save-Bukit China Fund is his first practical application of ‘cow-dung’ politics"
date: "1993-08-11"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Wednesday, August 11, 1993:_

# Liong Sik’s attempt to question DAP Save-Bukit China Fund is his first practical application of ‘cow-dung’ politics

It has taken the MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik, more than one month after I had announced details of the DAP Save-Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund in Malacca on July 10 to pluck up enough courage to again question the fund again.</u>

The reason is very obvious. Liong Sik, who made his greatest political misjudgment and error in trying to question the DAP Save-Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund, had hoped that the whole Bukit China issue would be forgotten.

However Liong Sik and his ‘counsellors’ should have realised by now that the DAP is not going to allow the Bukit China issue to rest, as it was Liong Sik who resurrected the issue and it is an issue where the people can compare and decide which political party had been playing the ‘good’ and which political party playing the ‘bad’ role in Malaysia.

Liong Sik, for instance, had no answer to my allegation that ten years ago, he was hand-in-glove with the Malacca Chief Minister, Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik, conspiring with him to demolish Bukit China. It must have taken Liong Sik many days to recover from my announcement that DAP will produce such proof during the nation-wide and year-long DAP Save Bukit China campaign tenth anniversary celebrations starting in October.

Liong Sik also had no answer when I offered him an opportunity to publicly repent and apologise for his role ten years ago in conspiring with Rahim Tamby Cik to demolish Bukit China, in the same way that the Japanese Government has publicly apologised for its war crimes some 50 years ago.

Liong Sik and his ‘counsellors’ have now realised that in trying to question the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund, the MCA President has stirred a ‘hornet’s nest’. This is why the whole mis-strategy of the MCA President was discussed at the MCA Presidential Council yesterday, which must have found that there was no way out except to brazen through to continue to question the DAP Save Bukit China although they know that there is no basis whatsoever to their queries.

In fact, Liong Sik’s attempt to question the DAP’s Save Bukit China One-Person One- Dollar Fund is his first application of his new discovery – ‘cow-dung’ politics.

Liong Sik is resorting to throwing ‘cow-dung’ as his political offence and defence. It is most comic to see Liong Sik becoming a ‘cow-dung’ political leader.

I an prepared to organise another ‘Lim Kit Siang – Ling Liong Sik mutual questioning session’ in August where he can ask all question he wats about DAP Save Bukit China Fund and I will ask questions about MCA financial scandals


Liong Sik claims that it is ‘absolutely unbelievable’ that the DAP Save-Bukit China One-Person One- Dollar Fund collections in the last three weeks of 1984 was RM21,000 and that I must account for the millions of ringgit the DAP had collected for the Bukit China trustees.

It is clear that  Liong Sik thinks that because MCA leaders have an established reputation for misappropriating public funds -  and a MCA President had even gone to jail for criminal breach of trust not only in Malaysia but overseas – he thinks that DAP leaders are no different from MCA leaders. He cannot be more wrong.

The monies collected from the DAP Save-Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund, amounting to over RM33,000 together with interests, have been sent to Cheng Hoon Teng, Bukit China trustees, for the beautification of Bukit China.

If Ling Sik really believe that the details of the DAP Save-Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund is ‘absolutely unbelievable’, he should welcome an opportunity for a ‘mutual questioning’ session which he dared not attend when I arranged one in Malacca on July 10. to show how ‘absolutely unbelievable’ are the DAP figures.

I am prepared to arrange another another ‘Lim Kit Siang – Ling Liong Sik mutual questioning session’ in August itself so that Liong Sik can have an apportunity to show how ‘absolutely unbelievable’ are the DAP figures.

Liong Sik is trying to throw ‘cow-dung’ at the DAP when he tried to raise question about DAP Save Bukit China Fund. But when the DAP raised question about MCA financial scandals as well as Liong Sik’s own financial scandal like his Bolton Finance scandal, we are not throwing’ cow-dung’. This is because the revelations about Liong Sik’s Bolton Finance scandal, for instance, was not the invention of the DAP but had been raised by Liong Sik’s own MCA colleagues, including MCA Deputy President, Datuk Lee Kim Sai in 1990. 

Let Liong Sik answer whether he is prepared to attend the second ‘Lim Kit Siang-Ling Liong Sik mutual questioning session’ this month where he could ask all the questions he want about DAP Save Bukit China Fund and where I will ask all the questions about the MCA financial scandals – including his Bolton Finance scandal.
 
