+++ 
title: "Kit Siang instructs lawyers to file legal proceedings against MCA President, Datuk Ling Liong Sik and MCA Youth Nasional Deputy Leader, Datuk Poh Ah Thiam for defamatory statements about DAP Save Bukit China Fund"
date: "1993-08-20"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Friday, 20th August , 1993:_

# Kit Siang instructs lawyers to file legal proceedings against MCA President, Datuk Ling Liong Sik and MCA Youth Nasional Deputy Leader, Datuk Poh Ah Thiam for defamatory statements about DAP Save Bukit China Fund

I have instructs my lawyers to file legal proceedings against MCA President, Datuk Ling Liong Sik for defamatory statements against me about DAP Save Bukit China Fund.</u>

This is in connection with a report in the Star on 14th August 1993 implying that I had done something dishonourable and dishonest in connection with the DAP Save Bukit China fund in 1984.

The Star report said:

“Speaking to reporters later, Dr. Ling said he believed the DAP had collected at least RM3 million form the public during its Save Bukit China Fund drive.

“He said the DAP’s claim that it only collected RM21,000 was unbelievable, adding DAP secretary-general Lim Kit Siang ‘should level with the people and stop giving unrealistic explanations,”

“It is very difficult for anyone to believe the DAP that it only raised RM63 in Kedah and the total amount collected was only RM21,000.

“How can we believe there was no accounts as implied by the DAP. Based on my calculation, the minimum amount raised would be RM3 million if not more,’ he said.

“Dr.Ling was sure the DAP had the receipts and bank accounts to show who donated the fund and when.

“ ‘Can you imagine if I say I have no accounts for the TAR College and the Langkawi Project fund? I would be dead duck with the ACA crawling over me.’

“He added any organisation which collected money from the people must issue receipts and it was only proper for the fund to be returned to the donors if they were not used.”

Liong Sik had clearly defamed my character and reputation and he should prove his allegations in open court or he should pay damages for defamation.

I have also instructed my lawyers to institute legal proceedings against MCA Youth Nasional Deputy Youth leader, Datuk Poh Ah Thiam, in connection with a Nanyang Siang Pao report today where he openly alleged that the DAP had collected RM2 million from its DAP Save Bukit China, again implying that I had pocketted the money.

DAP leaders are not like MCA leaders who have no reputation or integrity to defend. 

I challenge Liong Sik and the other MCA leaders to take the DAP leaders to court for the various open allegations which we have made about the numerous MCA financial scandals, including Liong Sik’s own Bolton Finance scandal.

I also challenge Liong Sik to take me to court for my statement yesterday, which I today repeat:

“Everybody knows that there are MCA leaders who are crooks and criminals – and MCA had even a President who had been jailed not only locally, but also abroad, for white-collar crimes.

“DAP leaders go to jail because of our ideals and our sacrifice for the rights of the people, while MCA leaders go to jail because they had misappropriated funds from the people.”
 
