+++ 
title: "If Liong Sik is not prepared to say publicly that he is not satisfied with my announcement of the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund, he should direct all his MCA leaders throughout the country to 'shut their mouths' on the issue henceforth"
date: "1993-07-13"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary- Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Tuesday, 13th July 1993:_

# If Liong Sik is not prepared to say publicly that he is not satisfied with my announcement of the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund, he should direct all his MCA leaders throughout the country to 'shut their mouths' on the issue henceforth

I am still waiting for the response from the MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik to my challenge to a second 'Lira Kit Siang-Ling Liong Sik mutual questioning if he dare to say publicly that he is not satisfied with my announcement of the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund in Malacca last Saturday.</u>

If Liong Sik is not satisfied with my announcement of the DAP Save-Bukit-China and Oppose-$2 million-Quit-Rent One-Person One-Dollar Fund last Saturday, Liong Sik is welcome to the second 'Lim Kit Siang-Ling Liong Sik mutual questioning' which I will arrange within a week in Malacca with all the questions he want to raise.

If Liong Sik dare not say publicly that lie is not satisfied with my announcement of the DAP Save-Bukit-China and. Oppose-$2 million-Quit-Rent One-Person One-Dollar Fund, then he should direct all the MCA leaders throughout, the country to ' shut their mouths' on the issue henceforth.

This episode has highlighted the difference between DAP and MCA leaders. I am prepared to face Liong Sik any time to let him query the DAP Save-Bukit-China and Oppose-$2 million-Quit-Rent One-Person One-Dollar Fund, but is he prepared to let me question him on the Bolton Finance scandal and the numerous other MCA financial scandals , like, the Chang Ming Tien Education Fund scandal, the Multi-Purpose Holdings scandal, etc?

Liong Sik dare not even deny my allegation that he was involved in the conspiracy ten years ago with Rahim Tamby Cik and other MCA leaders to demolish Bukit China

Dare Liong Sik invite me to a face-to-face 'mutual questioning' on the Bolton Finance Scandal arid, the other MCA financial scandals in the way I invited him to a face-to-face 'mutual question¬ing1 on the DAP Save-Bukit-China and Oppose-$2 million-Quit Rent One-Person One-Dollar Fund?

I notice that Liong Sik dare not even deny my allegation which I made last Saturday that he was involved in the conspiracy ten years ago with the Malacca Chief Minister, Rahim Tamby Cik and other MCA leaders to demolish Bukit China against the expressed wishes of the entire Chinese community in Malaysia.

I repeat I have proof that Liong Sik was actively involved in this conspiracy ten years ago to demolish Bukit. China and if Liong Sik dares to deny this, I will produce the proof,

DAP had never wanted to 'hold' the Save-Bukit-China One-Person One-Dollar Fund to oppose; the $2 million Quit Rent demand of the Malacca State Government as we had wanted to hand over the money to the Bukit China trustees, Cheng Hcon Teng, as far back as February 1985. We were the reluctant, 'custodians' of the Fund at the request of Cheng Hoon Teng, and for the last nine years, the DAP had been the victim of a malicious MCA defamatory campaign accusing the DAP of Donors of the DAP Save-Bukit-China One-Person One-Dollar Fund can claim back their- donation

As far as we are concerned, donors of the DAP Save-Bukit-China One-Person One-Dollar Fund can claim back their donation. All that is needed is for them to produce the receipt for their donation which were issued to them on the spot, during the campaign.

I do not believe however that arty of the donors to the DAP Save-Bukit-China and Oppose-$2 million-Quit Rent One-Person One-Dollar Fund would be so small-minded as want to claim refund of their dollar-donation to the Fund.

The mentality of the donors of the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund are very different from the mentality of MCA leaders, as the donors who come from all walks of life were in-spired by the high purpose of wanting to save Bukit China while MCA leaders will never been able to wipe out the dark and dishonourable chapter in its history ten years ago of aiding and abetting in the conspiracy to demolish Bukit. China.

I have no doubt that the donors of the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund will not want to have anything to do with such MCA leaders.

DAP welcomes public to give their views as to what to do with the RM33,732.79 Save-Bukit-China One-Person One-Dollar Fund

Following the announcement by Cheng Hoon Teng in 1992 that the Bukit China quit rent issue has been resolved, and their reply to the DAP stating that they would not accept donations, DAP had been working on the idea of using the money to build a memorial on Bukit China to commemorate the historic success of the Save Bukit China campaign.

I do not think the Fund is adequate for such a memorial on Bukit China, but it. would be a most fitting use of the money, standing as a permanent symbol to remind present and future generations that with unity, they could defend their basic cultural, historic and citizenship rights from encroachment from any quarter, however invincible they may appear at the time.

I believe the Malaysian public would be very generous in making more contributions to see such a memorial to the Save Bukit China campaign become a reality.

Our first problem, however, is the attitude of Cheng Hoon Teng trustees, who seem to be rather lukewarm to the idea of a. memorial on Bukit China to commemorate the Save Bukit China campaign - as if they want everyone to forget that there had ever been such an episode in 1984.

There is now a suggestion from outside the DAP that the DAP donate this money which stands at RM33.732.79 as at 15th June 1993 to Pay Fong Chinese Independent Secondary School, Dong/Zhiao Zhung education fund or Southern College.

DAP welcomes members of the public in Malacca and throughout Malaysia, especially the donors of the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund to give their views as how best to make use of this money.
 
