+++ 
title: "DAP calls on Malaysian Government to establish an inter-governmental committee comprising Sarawak and Sabah government representatives to review Sarawak and Sabah development on the occasion of their 30th anniversary of joining Malaysia"
date: "1993-06-03"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Miri on Thursday, 3rd June 1993 at 11 a.m.	_

# DAP calls on Malaysian Government to establish an inter-governmental committee comprising Sarawak and Sabah government representatives to review Sarawak and Sabah development on the occasion of their 30th anniversary of joining Malaysia

DAP calls on Malaysian Government to establish an inter-governmental committee comprising Sarawak and Sabah government representatives to review Sarawak and Sabah development on the occasion of their 30th anniversary of joining Malaysia.</u>

This inter-governmental committee should present its report to Parliament and the two State Legislative Assemblies of Sarawak and Sabah later this year for a full debate.

Such a decision would be more meaningful than the challenge by the Deputy Prime Minister, Ghafar Baba, recently to the Sabah PBS Government to an open debate on the 20-Points Agreement under which Sarawak and Sabah entered into the Malaysian union in 1963.

This 30-year inter-governmental review of Sarawak and Sabah’s joining of Malaysia should invite public representation from all groups in the two states as to how better to integrate Sarawak and Sabah into the Malaysian federation and national identity.

It should address issues and problems foremost in the minds of Sarawakians and Sabahans – in particular on the question as to whether the two states should have a higher royalty for oil and gas produced in the two states for the development and benefit of the people of Sarawak and Sabah.

Answar Ibrahim should explain how Bank Negara could lose RM 16 billion when an American money manager could make RM 5 billion from the British pound crisis last September			   

Malaysians are still waiting for the full story as to the real reasons for Bank Negara’s RM 16 billion foreign exchange losses last year.

The bulk of Bank Negara’s foreign exchange loses was the result of its speculation in foreign currency, especially the British pound last September when the British pound fell by some 30 per cent as a result of the European currency crisis.

I have just read abut the exploits of an American money manager and speculator, George Soros, 62, who is described as a ‘robber baron’ who emerged with profits estimated as RM 5 billion by selling sterling short when he led a raid on the Bank of England during last September’s European currency crisis.

The Finance Minster, Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim, should explain how Bank Negara could lose RM 16 billion when an American money manager could make RM 5 billion from the British pound crisis last September.

Apparently, George Soros made his RM 5 billion profit by selling sterling short while Bank Negara made its RM 16 billion losses by buying sterling long!

DAP calls for the legalization of the parabolic satellite antennae in Malaysia in keeping with the information revolution		

The Malaysian Government should legalise the parabolic satellite antennae in keeping with the information revolution.

Malaysia should not turn away from the information technology and revolution by clamping down on parabolic satellite antennae, which are widely available in Sarawak.

If parabolic satellite antennas are allowed in Indonesia, India, Thailand, Pakistan and even China to allow the viewers to plug into satellite television programmers, what is the reason for the ban in Malaysia?

There can only be one reason for imposing a ban on the parabolic satellite antennae – to give the monopoly of receiving satellite television to a favoured individual or groups, which would turn the opportunity into making huge profits.

This would be to the great benefit of a few but to the detriment of the entire Malaysian population.
 
