+++ 
title: "Koh Tsu Koon is poorly informed about developments in Penang although he is Chief Minister"
date: "1993-08-05"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Thursday, August 5, 1993:_

#  Koh Tsu Koon is poorly informed about developments in Penang although he is Chief Minister

Dr.Koh Tsu Koon is poorly informed about developments in Penang although he is Chief Minister.</u>

Tsu koon yesterday expressed disappointment over the delay in the acquisition of three gantry cranes for the North Butterworth Container Terminal and he urged the relevant authorities, including the Treasury, to resolve the problem immediately.

It is most shocking that as Penang Chief Minister, Tsu Koon had just woken up to this problem where the brand-new RM300 million North Butterworth Container Terminal would become a laughing stock in the world when it is completed in the middle of next year as it would not be able to be operational for a year as it had no gantry cranes.

It is mystifying that Tsu Koon did not know about this problem earlier when the Penang State Government is represented on the Penang Port Commission Board.

I had in fact spoken about this scandalous situation in Parliament five months ago, and again raised this issue in Parliament last week.

As Penang Chief Minister, Tsu Koon should be more alert to what is happening in Penang which could undermine the state’s competitive edge with other states and nations, and not wait for the DAP to inform him what is going wrong in the state.

Tsu Koon should pay personal visit to the Penang JPJ to see for himself the atrocious counter service


As Penang Chief Minister, Tsu Koon must provide personal leadership and not just give speeches at opening ceremonies.

For instance, he announced yesterday the establishment of a Civil Service Advisory Unit to improve the counter services of the government departments.

If Tsu Koon is genuinely concerned about counter services of government departments, he should have paid personal visit to the Penang JPJ to see for himself the atrocious counter service being provided there.
 
