+++ 
title: "DAP proposes that Cheng Hoon Teng trustees should allow the Chinese in Malacca and Malaysia to decide whether a Save Bukit China Memorial should be erected on Bukit China from the DAP Save-Bukit China and Oppose-S2 million-Quit Rent One-Person One-Dollar Fund"
date: "1993-07-18"
tags:
+++

_Speech (Part 3} by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, at the DAP leadership conference held at Hotel Wentworth Kuala Lumpur, Kuala Lumpur on Sunday, 18th July 1993 at 10 a.m._

# DAP proposes that Cheng Hoon Teng trustees should allow the Chinese in Malacca and Malaysia to decide whether a Save Bukit China Memorial should be erected on Bukit China from the DAP Save-Bukit China and Oppose-S2 million-Quit Rent One-Person One-Dollar Fund

The Chairman of Cheng Hoon Teng, Yoong Yong Pow, the trustees of Bukit China, said in the press yesterday that Cheng Hoon Teng has no plans to erect a memorial to commemorate the Save Bukit China campaign in 1984.</u>

He claimed that Cheng Hoon Teng in an A.R. Registered letter to the DAP dated 30th December 1992 had given this reply to the DAP National Organising Secretary, Sdr. Kerk Kim Hock. Sdr. Kerk Rim Hock had written to Cheng Hoon Teng dated 8th December 1992 informing the Bukit China trustees of the DAP!s intention to contribute the DAE Save-Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund to build a Save Bukit China campaign memorial on Bukit China.

The DAP never received the letter which Yoong Yong Pow said had been sent, to us by A.R, Registered more than seven months ago. Yoong Yong Pow should, ask the postal authorities to launch a full inquiry, for if the letter had been sent by A.R.Registered, there should be evidence of such posting and receipt.
We were informed of such a letter on Wednesday, when Sdr. Kerk Kim Hock approached the Cheng Hoon Teng to inquire about its response to his letter dated 8th December 1992.

We appreciate Cheng Hoon Teng's position that it has no plans to build a memorial on Bukit China to commemorate the historic Save Bukit China campaign. It is not Cheng Hoon Teng which has such -a plan taut the DAP which has such a plan to use the Save-Bxik.it China and Qppose-$2 million-Quit Rent. One-Person One-Dollar Fund - which stands at $33,732.79 including interests on June 15, 1993 - to build such a memorial to commemorate the great spirit shown by the people in 1984 to respond to the Save-Bukit China campaign.

There is no doubt that, if not for this great spirit of the people to stand up for their historic, cultural and citizenship rights, Bukit China in Malacca would not exist today. This is «f; spirit which must be perpetuated and commemorated for all time - and what better way than to build a memorial on the Save Bukit China campaign on Bukit China.

What is Cheng Hoon Teng's attitude to the proposal to erect a statue of Ee Yew Lin to pay tribute to the great leadership role he played in saving Bukit China from the great crisis of demolition in 1984
I know there are people who will have very strong objections to the proposal to build a memorial on Bukit China to commemorate the historic and successful Save Bukit China campaign in 19-84 particularly those who had actively helped the Malacca Chief Minister, Rahim Tamby Cik, in his conspiracy to demolish Bukit China, like MCA leaders, including the MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik.

Liong Sik should be prepared to defend his stand and actions in 1984 in giving full MCA support to Rahim Tamby Cik's conspiracy to demolish Bukit China.

This is why I had invited the MCA President to agree to allow DAP and MCA to jointly build the memorial on the historic 1984 Bukit China issue- The DAP will commemorate how with the support of the people, we succeeded in our campaign to Save Bukit. China; and MCA can commemorate how they had given full support to Rahim Tamby Cik'& conspiracy to demolish Bukit. China.

DAP would donate the DAP Save-Bukit China and Oppose-$2 million-Quit Rent. One-Person One-Dollar Fund for this purpose, while the MCA could use its Save Bukit China Fund contributed by MCA Ministers, Deputy Ministers, MPs, State Excos and Assemblymen - which together with interests should exceed $150,000 - for its portion of the Bukit China memorial.

Furthermore, each party undertakes to raise the necessary additional funds if the construction costs for our respective portions of the Memorial exceed our respective Fund - without requiring Cheng Hoon Teng to come out with a single cent.

Cheng Hoon Teng should decide whether it has any objections to the DAP using the Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund for building a memorial on Bukit China, although it has itself no plans for such a memorial.

Alternatively, what is Cheng Hoon Teng's attitude if we use the money to build a statue of Ee Yew Lin on Bukit China, to pay tribute to the great leadership role he played as Cheng Hoon Teng Chairman in saving the most ancient Chinese cemetry hill in the country from the crisis of demolition in 1984.

DAP proposes that, Cheng Hoon Teng allow the Chinese in Malacca and Malaysia decide whether a Save-Bukit China Memorial should be erected on Bukit China in Malacca from the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund.
 
