+++ 
title: "DAP CEC has decided to donate the proceeds from the DAP Save-Bukit China and Oppose 22-million Quit-Rent Demand One-Person One-Dollar Fund to Cheng Hoon Teng for the purpose of beautification of Bukit China"
date: "1993-07-30"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Friday, July 30, 1993:_

# DAP CEC has decided to donate the proceeds from the DAP Save-Bukit China and Oppose 22-million Quit-Rent Demand One-Person One-Dollar Fund to Cheng Hoon Teng for the purpose of beautification of Bukit China

DAP Central Executive Committee has decided to donate the proceeds from the DAP Save-Bukit China and Oppose $2 million Quit-Rent Demand One-Person One-Dollar Fund to Cheng Hoon Teng for the purpose of beautification of Bukit China.</u>

It is up to Cheng Hoon Teng, the trustees of Bukit China, to soley decide how this sum of money, which exceeds RM33,000 with interest, is to be used for the beautification of Bukit China.

I call on the MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik not to continue to keep the MCA Bukit China Funds which should exceed RM150,000 together with interests which were donated by MCA Ministers, Deputy Ministers, Parliamentary Secretaries, MPs and Assemblymen in 1984.

Can Liong Sik give one reason why the MCA is still keeping this sum of RM150,000? Or can the MCA President claim, as the DAP can and backed with proof of correspondence with Cheng Hoon Teng going back to 1985, that the MCA had wanted to hand over the RM150,000 to Cheng Hoon Teng but the Bukit China trustees had asked MCA to ‘hold the money’ temporarily?

If Liong Sik cannot produce a single correspondence or single proof that the MCA leadership had wanted to hand over the RM150,000 to Cheng Hoon Teng for the last ten years, but was asked to 'hold the money' temporarily, then Liong Sik owe a full and clear explanation to the entire Chinese community.

The 1984 Save Bukit China Campaign will go down in Malaysian history as one of greatest and most successful popular campaigns, where the people stood up against the forces of repression and injustice to defend their cultural, historic and citizenship rights.

There are people who do not want the people to remember the great success of the Save Bukit China campaign. One such attempt to make the people to forget the Save Bukit China campaign was made by the MCA recently, when Liong Sik challenged me to announce the DAP Gave-Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund within a week.

However, he made a great political and tactical misjudgment and error, for he forgot that DAP leaders are not like MCA leaders and that the DAP leaders do not run away from challenges.

This was why I announced two weeks ago that I will expose the real and ulterior motive of the MCA President in trying to re-open the whole Bukit China issue of 1984 at the Malacca DAP anniversary dinner tomorrow.
 
