+++ 
title: "Kit Siang extends invitation to Lim Keng Yaik to attend the Save Bukit China Fund appointment in Malacca tomorrow"
date: "1993-07-09"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Java on Friday, July 9, 1993:_

# Kit Siang extends invitation to Lim Keng Yaik to attend the Save Bukit China Fund appointment in Malacca tomorrow

Although it was the MCA President, Datuk Ling Liong Sik, who challenged me to produce the DAP Save Bukit China accounts within a week, it is apparent that the Gerakan does not want to be left out of the picture.

This is why the Gerakan had also been issuing many state¬ments in the last few days on the same issue of the DAP Save Bukit. China accounts.</u>

In view of the Gerakan's interest on the same issue, I am now extending my invitation to the Gerakan President, Datuk Dr. Lira Keng Yaik, to attend the Save Bukit China Fund appointment in Malacca at Emperor Hotel at 10 a.m. tomorrow, which I have fixed for the MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik.

When the DAP launched the nation-wide Save Bukit China campaign ten years ago, there was no support, whatsoever from the Dr. Lirn Keng Yaik or the Gerakan, who were supportive of the plan by the Malacca Chief Minister, Rahim Tamby Cik to 'develop' Bukit China.

Of course, to be fair to Keng Yaik and the Gerakan, they were not so actively involved in Rahim Tamby Cik's plan to demolish and develop Bukit China like the MCA, for only the MCA faction of Tan Koon Swan and Ling Liong Sik was privy to the entire plan to demolish Bukit China.
In the conspiracy ten years ago to demolish and destroy the most ancient Chinese cemetry hill in Malaysia, Malacca UMNO and the MCA must share the greatest guilt, in the eyes of history. Gerakan however cannot escape condemnation for it did not lift a finger to help in the nation-wide Save Bukit China campaign.

If not for the DAP Nation-wide Save Bukit China Campaign, where many leaders were arrested and charged in court, UMNO and MCA would have succeeded in their conspiracy to demolish Bukit China.
It is therefore most proper that Datuk Dr. Liin Keng Yaik should also attend the Bukit China appointment in Malacca tomorrow with Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik.

Let the first "Three Lims" Meeting be held  in  Bukit China in Malacca, tomorrow
It was Liong Sik who recently said that he was prepared to have a 'Three Lims' meeting. Then let this first. 'Three Lims1 meeting be held in Bukit China in Malacca tomorrow.

The second 'Three Lims' meeting can be held in Kota Bahru on Sunday, the first of the four dates I had given inviting Liong Sik and Keng Yaik to join me in a trip to Kota Bahru to drink beer publicly to challenge the new Kelantan State Government regulation restricting public  sale and consumption of  alcohol  affecting  non-Muslims .

Liong Sik should not have any reservations in keeping the Malacca appointment tomorrow, as he had been given ample time to do homework to give satisfactory explanation for his Bolton Finance scandal and the numerous MCA financial scandals.

He should realise that if he does not turn up for the Bukit China appointment which was the result of his own challenge to me, the public would draw the following conclusions:

Firstly, he is the worst MCA President who does not know what he is talking about, as he had to depend on second-hand sources to understand what is happening in Chinese society and in the Chinese newspapers; and he is having the worst set of advisers who give him all the wrong information arid advice;

Secondly, he has a lot of things to hide which he dare not expose to public light, like his Bolton Finance scandal and the numerous MCA financial scandals.

It is for Liong Sik's own good that he should keep the Bukit China appointment in Malacca tomorrow!
 
