+++ 
title: "ASEAN should formally ask Japan to establish a RM25 billion fund to compensate Japanese wartime victims"
date: "1993-08-24"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Tuesday, August 24, 1993:_

# ASEAN should formally ask Japan to establish a RM25 billion fund to compensate Japanese wartime victims

In his first speech in the Japanese Diet, Japanese Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa, made a formal apology for Japan’s wartime atrocities in Asia but held back from offering compensation.</u>

DAP welcomes Hosokawa’s apology in the Japanese Diet as a previous administration under the Liberal Democratic Party, which had ruled for 38 years, had steadfastly refused to say in Parliament that Japan fought a war of aggression.

DAP calls on ASEAN to formally ask Japan to establish a RM25 billion fund to compensate Japanese wartime victims, including the Japanese Imperialistic Army sex slaves in the Japanese occupied countries.
It is most shocking hat up to now the four MCA Ministers have no stand on this issue, as indicated very clearly by the MCA Deputy President and Minister for Health, Datuk Lee Kim Sai, who said he did not know what is the official position of the MCA on this issue.

This is again proof that the MCA leadership is only interested in publicly on issues like Japanese Government compensation to wartime victims but are not prepared to do the necessary homework to pursue them in Cabinet and Government.

The Barisan Nasional Cabinet should Look East and not be another Japanese Liberal Democratic Party which had to be swept out of power because of rampant corruption and influence-peddling

The Barisan Nasional Cabinet should Look East and not to be another Japanese Liberal Democratic Party which had to be swept out of power because of rampant corruption and influence-pedding in the Malaysian political system.

Yesterday, the new Japanese Prime Mnister, Morihiro Hosokawa, is his first policy speech in the Japanese Diet, committed his government to clean up political corruption in Japan.

He said the most important issue his new government faced was the introduction of drastic steps in his first year in office to stamp out corruption and sever the cosy network linking big business, bureaucrats and influence-peddling politicians.

The Malaysian Cabinet should hold a special meeting to discuss corruption, money politics and unethical practices especially involving Cabinet Ministers and ruling political parties.
 
