+++ 
title: "Tan Gim Hwa can become a very ‘tough’ MPPP President when he wants or he could become utterly ineffective and impotent when the circumstances demand it"
date: "1994-08-16"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Tuesday, August 16, 1994:_

# Tan Gim Hwa can become a very ‘tough’ MPPP President when he wants or he could become utterly ineffective and impotent when the circumstances demand it

On August 3, I asked at a press conference why the MPPP President, Datuk Tan Gim Hwa, had overrident the objections of the residents at Jalan Lim Mah Chye to demolish a heritage building at No. 2, Jalan Scotland for extensive renovation for a private clubhouse.</u>

Today, the New Straits Times under the heading ‘Another ole building torn down’, reported that the MPPP Building Department had issued a notice on June 6 asking the land and building owner to cease demolition work on the building.

However, the developers had chosen to ignore the order by demolishing the building since about three to four months ago leaving only the façade standing.

The report said that the project architect, in a letter to the council, had stated that while attempting to change the roof of the building, they had found the structure of the building to be unsafe and, in the name of safety, had proceeded to tear down a large portion of the building.

The council had, in its letter, stated that although the building has yet to be classified as a heritage building, the developers and architects cannot demolish any part of the building without first obtaining the council’s building department’s approval.

The building department issued a reminder to the developers to stop work until they get the approval.

Tan Gim Hwa should explain why the MPPP is impotent in this case.

Since Tan Gim Hwa became MPPP President, he could be a very ‘tough’ MPPP President when he wants or he could become utterly ineffective and impotent when the circumstances demand it, as for instance on the Hotel Metropole demolition scandal.

Penangites are again seeing the other face of Tan Gim Hwa as MPPP President – the utterly weak and impotent MPPP President.
 
