+++ 
title: "Keng Chin Seng would be throughtly ashamed of himself that he is more interested in a press statement war’ with the DAP more than on the outrageous destruction of the 100-year-old heritage building , Hotel Metropole"
date: "1994-01-12"
tags:
+++

_By Parliament Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary –General and MP for Tanjung , Lim Kit Siang , in Penang on Wednesday  , 12th  January 1994;_

# Keng Chin Seng would be throughtly ashamed of himself that he is more interested in a press statement war’ with the DAP more than on the outrageous destruction of the 100-year-old heritage building , Hotel Metropole

Penang State Exco Member who heads the State Science Technology and Human Resources Development Committee , Dr. Kang Chin Seng , said yesterday that the DAP should apologized for lies in connection with demolition of Hotel Metropole before continuing with the Hoel Metropole press statement war.</u>

Dr. Kang Chin Seng should be thoroughtly ashamed of himself that he is more interested in a press statement war with the DAP than on the outrageous destruction of the 100 year old heritage building , Hotel Metropole.

Let me tell Dr. Kang that the DAP is not interest in a press statement war with the Gerakn , and I have instructed Penang DAP officials not to waste their time in any press Statement war with the Gerakan leaders – big or small – as the one and only issue here is the scandalous and outrageous destruction of a part of Penang tradition heritage , culture and history with the ‘ lightning demolition ‘ of Hotel Metropole on Christmas Day.

It is clear why Dr. Kang and the gerakan Leaders want to have a press statement war which the DAP Dr kang and the Gerakan leaders want to play political games so as to distract public attention from the various salient aspects of the Hotel Metropole demolition scandal – in particular the role and responsibility of the MPPP president and councilors , the Penang state  Government , the Gerakan leaders and the real new owners.

Dr . Kang wants to play political games over the demolition of Hotel Metropole but the DAP will not oblige as this is too serious an issue for the political games.

Dr kang fully well who are the real owners of the RM2 company Dolphin Sdn Bhd but he wants to play the political games that he does not know.

Dr. Kang wants to play political games over the destruction of Hotel Metropole but the DAP will not oblige , as the demolition of the Hotel Metropole is too serious an issue to become a ‘ political game’.

Dr. Kang also knows that if there is a full public inquiry into the Hotel Metropole demolition scandal , any Gerakan leaders would be called to testify as to their role in the destruction of Penang tradition , heritage , culture and history.

Some of these Gerakan leaders who would be called to testify as to their role would include MPPP president , Datuk Tan GIm Hwa , former Senate President , Tan Sri Chan Choong Tat , former Gerakan Senator Soong Siew Hoong , Gerakan MPPP Councillors including Lim Boo chong , Penang Gerakan Leaders including Datuk Lim Ee Heong and mant strong Gerakan supporters like the real new owners behind the RM 2 company, Dolphin Square Sdn Bhd which paid RM 9.5 million for Hotel Metropole.

DAP has no time nor interest in a press statement war with the Gerakan , especially as this Gerakan publicy offensive is based on lies , dishonesty and a guilty conscience over the demolition of hotal Metropole .

Dr. Kang for instance accused me of telling the lie that  I had accused the MPPP of giving a directive to the Dolphin Square Sdn Bhd to demolish Hotel Metropole . I have not made such a statement and Dr. kang must be dreaming.

As to whether DAtuk Tan Gim Hwa had suppreptitiously removed Hotal Metropole from the MPPP list of conservation buildings , this could only be established in a full Public Inquiry to ascertain:

	Whether Tan Gim Hwa had connived in the demolition of the Hotel Metropole ;
	
	Whether Tan Gim Hwa had prior knowledge of the proposed demolition and had
 taken all necessary steps to prevent its demolition ; and

whether the new owners had been induced to buy the Hotal Metropole for RM 9.5 million on an understanding that Hotal Metropole could be demolished.
 
