+++ 
title: "The traffic impact study as well as the entire planning application of the Taman Midlands project should be made public before any MPPP approval is given"
date: "1994-01-11"
tags:
+++

_By Parliament Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary –General and MP for Tanjung , Lim Kit Siang , in Penang on Tuesday , 11 January 1994;_

# The traffic impact study as well as the entire planning application of the Taman Midlands project should be made public before any MPPP approval is given

The MPPP President , Datuk Tan Gim Hwa’s announcement yesterday that Pangkal Permata(M) Sdn . Bhd had completed a traffic impact study in Pulau Tikus in view of the proposed Taman Midlands developments project must come as a surprise to all concerned.</u>

I t was only at the Dec. 28 dialogue with the residents who would be affected by Taman Midlands project that the developer promised to undertake a traffic impact study. 

It would appear that in present-day MPPP under Tan Gim Hwa , everthing is beimng done at ‘ lighting ‘ speed – whether the ‘ lighting demolition ‘ of Hotel Metreopole on Christmas Day or the ‘lighting ‘ traffic impact study at Pulau Tikus.

Tan Gim Hwa must give an assurance that there would not be ‘lighting ; approval for the Pangkal Permata (M) Sdn . Bhd planning application for Taman Midlands project by the new MPPP.

The traffic impact study as well as the entire planning application for Taman Midlands project should be made public for the people affected by the project an opportunity to intelligently give their views and reactions . Th public have also a right to know who had made the ‘lihjting ‘ traffic impact study on behalf of Pangkal Permata (M) sdn /Bhd.

Tan Gim Hwa is very wrong when he claimed that the midlands residents’ main concerns are traffic congestion and the lack of propwe rubbish disposal scheme in the area , as there is very strong opposition to the entire Taman Midlands project by the Affected residents.

The new MPPP council must not ride roughshod over the strong opposition of the affected Midlands residents to the entire Taman Midlands project of Pangkal Permata (M0 Sdn . Bhd without Giving them the fullest opportunity to present their views.
 
