+++ 
title: "Proposal of a meeting in Parliament on Tuesday morning of MPs from all political parties con-cerned about the grave allegation that Australian spies had bribed Malaysian MPs who were government politicians and UMNO leaders"
date: "1994-02-06"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Sunday, February 6, 1994:_

# Proposal of a meeting in Parliament on Tuesday morning of MPs from all political parties con-cerned about the grave allegation that Australian spies had bribed Malaysian MPs who were government politicians and UMNO leaders

The allegations in the Australian mass media that Australian Secret Intelligence Service (ASIS) had been bribing MPs who were government politicians and UMNO leaders until four years ago are very grave and serious for two reasons:</u>

	they tarnish the image, credibility and integri¬ty of the Malaysian Parliament and nation; and
	they constitute an unwarranted interference in the domestic affairs of Malaysia by a foreign country.

It is significant that although the Canberra Times of February 3 cleared opposition politicians who had earlier been alleged by the Sydney Sunday Telegraph of January 16 as having been bribed by Australian spies, it also confirmed the earlier report that Malaysian politicians had been, bribed by Australian spies except that it is government politicians and UMNO leaders who were the ‘traitors’ and not opposition politicians.

All MPs should take a very serious view of these Australian mass media allegations, and take a common and united stand regardless of political party against such an affront and supreme insult to the dignity, honour and integrity of Parliament as well as an unacceptable interference in the domestic affairs of Malaysia.

For this reason, it is proposed to call a meeting of all MPs at Parliament House on Tuesday, 8th February 1994 at 10 a.m. to discuss the grave allegations in the Australia mass media that Australian spies had bribed Malaysians MPs who were govern¬ment politicians and UMNO leaders until four years ago.

I would urge all MPs from all political parties, whether from government or opposition, who are concerned and angry about the Australian allegations that Australian spies had bribed Malaysian MPs to attend this meeting, and that on this national issue, all MPs should put aside their party affiliations and take a common national stand.

Let MPs show to all Malaysians and the whole world that on a national issue, they can take on common stand as Malay¬sians to protect the good name and integrity of the nation.

I hope therefore that on Tuesday morning, MPs from all political parties, would be able to attend - whether from UMNO, MCA, Gerakan, MIC, SUPP, PBB, SNAP, PBDS in government or the DAP, PBS, Semangat 46 or PAS in the Opposition.

In view of the shortness of time, and the coming Chinese New Year holidays and the beginning of the Puasa month, it is not possible to send out individual invitations for the Tuesday meeting of MPs in Parliament.

However, I hope all MPs will agree that the urgency and gravity of the issue demand that there should be .a meeting of MPs as early as possible, and that every MP would make an effort to attend the Tuesday meeting of MPs in Parliament. MPs who could not attend the Tuesday meeting should empower other MPs who could attend to speak and decide en their behalf.

In fact, I hope that Cabinet Ministers would also attend the meeting of MPs in Parliament on Tuesday, for they are also MPs in the first instance.

Proposal for establishment of an All-Party Parlia¬mentary Committee on Tuesday to defend the1honour, credibility and integrity of Malaysian Parliament

The meeting of MPs in Parliament on Tuesday should discuss and decide what measures should be taken to defend the honour, credibility and integrity of Malaysian Parliament in view of the Australian allegations.

I would suggest that an All-Party Parliamentary Com¬mittee be set up at the meeting of MPs on Tuesday entrusted with the task of taking all necessary actions to ensure that there would be the fullest investigation into the Australian allega¬tions, so that the whole truth could be known.

Invitation to Dr. Mahathir, Anwar Ibrahim and Speaker to attend the meeting of MPs in Parliament on Tuesday on the Australian allegations

As I had announced in Penang on Thursday, I had writ¬ten to the Prime Minister Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamad to ask for a meeting on the serious Australian allegations about Malaysian politicians receiving bribes from the Australian secret intelligence agency.

In fact, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minis¬ter, Datuk Seri Anwar Tbrahim and the Speaker of Dewan Rakyat, Tan Sri Zahir Mohamed Ismail, should also attend the meeting of MPs in Parliament on Tuesday on the Australian mass media allega¬tions, and I would be sending formal invitations to Dr. Mahathir, Datuk Seri Anwar and Tan Sri Zahir for the Tuesday meeting.

I would also invite the Inspector-General Police, Tan Sri Rahim Hoor., to the Tuesday meeting, as he might wish to give a briefing to MPs what he meant when he said on Wednesday that that preliminary police investigations had found some evidence to back up the claims of the Sydney Sunday Telegraph that Malaysian politicians had received bribes from Australian Secret Intelli¬gence Service.
 
