+++ 
title: "DAP may lose two MPs  - Wee Choo Keong and Lim Guan Eng – if they are disqualified from holding elective office as a results of court convictions and sentences"
date: "1994-01-05"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, Dap Secretary- General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang , the DAP Federal Territory State Committee meeting in Kuala Lumpur on Wednesday , January 5, 1993 at 8pm._

# DAP may lose two MPs  - Wee Choo Keong and Lim Guan Eng – if they are disqualified from holding elective office as a results of court convictions and sentences

DAP may lose two MPs  - Wee Choo Keong and Lim Guan Eng – if they are disqualified from holding elective office as a results of court convictions and sentences.</u>

At present , two DAP Mps – DAP MP for Bukit Bintang , Wee Choo Keong and DAP MP for Kota Melaka , Lim Guan Eng -  who have pending cases in court could be disqualified from being MPs and their seats fall vacant if they receive court convictions and sentences involving fines exceeding RM 2000 or one year jail sentence.

The prospect of disqualification as MPs currently faced by Sdr. Wee Choo Keong and Sdr, Lim Guan Eng are among the trials and tribulations DAP leaders must be prepared to undergo in their political struggle.

However, although there is a vast reservoir of good- will and support among Malaysian for the DAP , there are not many people who are prepared to sacrifice their personal comforts and peaceful , just , equal, free and united Malaysian nation.

This is why DAP leaders who are prepared to pay heavy  price to speak up and fight for the rights  of all Malaysians , even losing their personal liberties as being detained under the Internal Security Act, deserve the fullest support from the people at all times – whether in general elections or otherwise.

People should withdraw support and even boycott publications which stoop so low as to spread lies and falsehoods against Opposition leaders.

DAP leaders have often to undergo great pressure stress and strains and one example of such pressures is a media campaign of lies and falsehoods.

I understand for instance that there would be a ferocious about leaders in government, but they have no compunction or morality in spreading lies and falsehoods against Opposition leaders.

Maybe the time has come for the people to take action against publications which stoop so low as to retail lies and falsehood against Opposition Leaders by withdrawing their support and boycott such publications altogether.
 
