+++ 
title: "MCA President Ling Liong Sik should take disciplinary against Wong See Wah who had not in ‘real practical terms’ helped to resolve the problems of the 600 smallholders affected by Seremban II project land acquisition"
date: "1994-12-03"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement (2) by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, December 3, 1994_

# MCA President Ling Liong Sik should take disciplinary against Wong See Wah who had not in ‘real practical terms’ helped to resolve the problems of the 600 smallholders affected by Seremban II project land acquisition

The MCA Deputy Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department Datuk Wong See Wah said yesterday that the DAP should act in ‘real political terms’ to sincerely resolved the problems faced by the 600 smallholders affected by Seremban II project land acquisition.</u>

It is Wong See Wah who is guilty of not acting on his own advice, as he has failed the 600 affected smallholders, both as Deputy Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department and MP for the area, to get justice for the smallholders in the land acquisition issue.

In fact, the MCA President Datuk Seri Dr. ling Liong Sik should take displinary action against Wong See Wah for failing in ‘real practical terms’ to help resolve the problems faced by the 600 affected smallholders.

The indictment against Wong See Wah for his failure to do his duty as Deputy Minister and MP for the area will be on the following five grounds :-

(1) In giving full support to the Land Acquisition Amendment Act in July 1991 which enabled the negeri Sembilan state government to acquire 2,234 acres of land in Mambau, Rasah and Labu not for public purpose but for the private development by a private company.

(2) In failing to ensure that the affected smallholders are fully informed of the Seremban II project which was decided by the Negeri Sembilan government in September last year. In fact, up to now the affected smallholders have very vague notions about the Seremban II project.

(3) In unable to get higher compensation for the smallholders.

(4) in his failure to get the Negeri Sembilan state government to offer to the affected smallholders the option of joint venture development of their land under the Seremban Ii project.

(5) In continuing to mislead the affected smallholders that their only solution is to go to court to appeal for higher compensation when the MCA leadership has a duty to ensure full justice in the land acquition controversy, as it is the MCA Ministers and MPs who were responsible for the passage of the 1991 Land Acquisition Amendment Act – without which, there could be no acquisition of 2,234 acres of land for Seremban II project by private developer.

It is obvious that if the 600 affected smallholders in the Seremban II project are to get justice and fair play, they cannot depend merely on the courts but must seek a political solution whereby they can get more equitable and just compensation terms, particularly in terms of higher quantum of compensation and the opportunity and option of joint venture development of the project by the smallholders.
 
