+++ 
title: "Penang DAP will continue to reach out in Malay areas in the Battle of Tanjong 3 to get Malay support for the DAP to capture the Penang State Government in the general elections"
date: "1994-04-17"
tags:
+++

_Speech by parliamentary Oppostion Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, at the DAP Tanjong 3 Committee meeting held at Penang DAP HQRS ON Sunday, 17th April 1994 at 8.30 p.m._

# Penang DAP will continue to reach out in Malay areas in the Battle of Tanjong 3 to get Malay support for the DAP to capture the Penang State Government in the general elections

The attempt by a group of UMNO youngsters to disrupt the DAP Tanjong 3 ceramah at Tanjong Tokong UDA flats last night is a two-fold sign: firstly, that UMNO is afraid that DAP will get support from the Penang Malays for its Tanjong 3 project and secondly, the fear of Dr. Koh Tsu Koon who is the Assemblyman for the area, i.e. Tanjong Bungah.</u>

Penang DAP will continue to reach out in Malay areas in the Battle of Tanjong 3 to get Maly support for the DAP to capture the Penang State Government in the next general elections. 

The UNMO is now caught in a web of contradictions. If UMNO accusation that the DAP is anti-Malay is valid, then it should not be afraid that the DAP is anti-Malay support as to send a group of UMNO youngsters to try to disrupt the DAP ceramah at the Tanjong Tokong UDA flats last night. The attempt by Bukit Bendera UMNO Division to disrupt the DAP ceramah last night is not the result of the confidence about Malay support, but of fear that UMNO could lose Malay support to the DAP!

Furthermore, if UMNO claims to be the greatest champion of the system of parliamentary democracy in Malaysia, what then is its justification in trying to silence the voice of the DAP by trying to disrupt the DAP ceramah at Tanjong Tokong UDA flats last night?

If I have an opportunity, I will ask the Deputy Prime Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim, who is also Penang UMNO State Liaison Chairman, in Parliament whether it is now the new policy of Penang UMNO to send trouble-makers and saboteurs to DAP will support the DAP’s policies, objectives and intentions about the Tanjong 3battle for Penang State power in the next general elections.
 
Are the Penang UMNO leaders so ensure about Malay support in Penang that they have to resort to such deplorable tactics?

I will also advise Anwar Ibrahim to give political courses to Penang UMNO divisional leaders responsible for last night’s disgraceful episode so that they can understand the true meaning of democracy, which must mean that the people are given the chance to hear the views and stands of different political parties and allowed to make their own choice as to which political party they want to give their support.

Why is Tsu Koon so secretive about the dates for the next Penang State Asssembly meeting as if their disclosure would be a grave security risk or cause the downfall of the Barisan Nasional state government?

The disgraceful episode at Tanjong Tokong last night also reflect the obsessive fear of the Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon, about the DAP Tanjong 3 preparations.

This last State Assembly was held in December last year, and Penang DAP Assemblymen still donot know when is the next Penang State Assembly meeting.

Why is Tsu Koon so secretive about the dates for the next Penang State Assembly meeting as if their disclosure would be a grave security risk or cause the downfall of the Barisan Nasional state government?

The disgraceful episode at Tanjong Tokong last night also reflect the obsessive fear of the Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon, about the DAP Tanjong 3 preparations.

This has made him very frightened about holding Penang State Assembly meetings. In other states, State Assemblies are held thrice a year, but in Penang, Tsu Koon would only hold two State Assembly meetings a year. If he is not prevented by the Assembly Standing Orders, he would probably hold only one State Assembly meeting a year.

The last State Assembly was held in December last year, and Penang DAP Assemblymen still do not know when is the next Penang State Assembly meeting.

Why is Tsu Koon so secretive about the dates for the next Penang State Assembly meeting as if their disclosure would be a grave security risk or could case the downfall of the Barisan Nasional state government in Penang!

How can Tsun Koon claim to believe in an open and accountable government when he is so secretive about the dates for the next Penang State Assembly meeting?
 
