+++ 
title: "DAP to table a motion in July meeting of Dewan Rakyat to censure Pos Malaysia for its inefficiency and for undermining Members of Parliament from fully discharging their parliamentary duties"
date: "1994-06-15"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Slang, in Petaling Jaya on Wednesday, 15th June 1994:_

# DAP to table a motion in July meeting of Dewan Rakyat to censure Pos Malaysia for its inefficiency and for undermining Members of Parliament from fully discharging their parliamentary duties

		DAP will table a motion in the July meeting of Dewan Rakyat to censure Pos Malaysia for its inefficiency and for undermining Members of Parliament from fully discharging their parliamentary duties.</u>

		It has taken Pos Malaysia ten days to deliver the Parliamentary notice on the July meeting of the Dewan Rakyat, signed by Setiausaha Dewan Rakyat, Dato’ Abdul Rahman bin Haji Ali dated 3rd June 1994, to MPs in the Klang Valley.

		I received the notice, addressed to Petaling Jaya only on the evening of 13th June. MPs are informed that they must submit their oral and written questions latest by Thursday, 16th June, which give MPs less than three days to prepare their questions.

		This has never happened before in the history of Malaysian Parliament. In my 25 years as Member of Parliament, MPs are given at least two weeks before the deadline for the submission of questions, and not now, only a few days.
		Pos Malaysia should be censured, not only for being more inefficient than before privatisation, but also because the inordinate postal delays had denied proper and adequate notice to MPs to prepare their parliamentary questions.

		Instead of giving Pos Malaysia a three-month ultimatum about mail delivery on the same day for Klang Valley and delivery within 24 hours for other elect in at ions in Peninsular Malaysia, and then backing down from such an ultimatum what the Minister for Energy, Telecommunications and Posts, Datuk Seri S. Samy Vellu should do is to get Pos Malaysia to immediately implement a system where mail delivery posted in Klang Valley is delivered within 24 hours and for other destinations in Peninsular Malaysia within 48 hours.

Samy Vellu must be the most unpopular Minister in Malaysia and in the world to be getting 400 abusive telephone calls at home every day

		May be, Samy Vellu's failure to ensure prompt and efficient mail delivery by Pos Malaysia is one reason why Samy Vellu is getting about 400 abusive telephone calls in his house every day.

		It was Samy Vellu himself who made this startling revelation two days ago that he is getting 750 to 800 telephone calls in his house every day, half of which are abusive.

		As a result, Samy Vellu said he is testing a new system at his own house where a subscriber could programme the telephone numbers of their relatives and friends so that only calls from these people could get through. Once a call comes through, a voice would ask the caller to key in his or her own telephone number and if the number is not programmed into the system, the call will not go through.

		Samy Vellu must be the most unpopular Minister in Malaysia and even in the world to be getting about 400 abusive telephone calls in his house every day.
 
