+++ 
title: "Kit Siang accepts Liong Sik’s second challenge to produce DAP Save Bukti China One-Person One-Dollar account within a week but wants Liong Sik to confirm within three days that he would attend the Kit Siang-Liong Sik ‘mutual verififcation’ meeting at Bukit China"
date: "1994-08-11"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement (2) by Parliamentary Oppposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, when launching the book The Bank Negara RM30 Billion Forex Losses Scandal in Penang on Thursday, August 11, 1994 at 12 noon_

# Kit Siang accepts Liong Sik’s second challenge to produce DAP Save Bukti China One-Person One-Dollar account within a week but wants Liong Sik to confirm within three days that he would attend the Kit Siang-Liong Sik ‘mutual verififcation’ meeting at Bukit China

On Monday in Penang, MCA President, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik challenged me to produce the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar account within a week.</u>

The next day, he challenged me to produce the account within three days. Later on the same day in Kuala Lumpur, he wanted me to answer his challenge by before Thursday, i.e. by yesterday, which reduces the period to only 36 hours from the time I first received notice of his challenge!

Why is Liong Sik so unstable, slashing his own one-week deadline to three days and then to a mere 36 hours?

Liong Sik seems to be panickig for issuing his challenge to me, as he seems to feel that giving me one week and even three days to respond is too long!

I am announcing at this press conderence that I accept Liong Sik’s challenge to produce the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar account within a week provided Liong Sik confirms within three days that he would attend such a Kit Siang-Liong Sik ‘mutual verification’ appointment at Bukit China in Malacca.

I give Liong Sik up to Sunday to confirm that since he dared to challenge me to produce the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar account, he would dare to attend such a Kit Siang-Liong Sik ‘mutual verification’ appointment. Once Liong Sik confirms that he dare to keep his appointment at Bukit China with me, I will fix the date within a week to produce the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar account.

Liong Sik can raise any questions he want at the Kit Siang-Liong Sik ‘mutual verification’ appointment at Bukit China about the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar account, or any other DAP account. But Liong Sik should be prepared to explain all the ‘untidy and unclean’ MCA accounts, including his own Bolton Finance scandal as well.

This is the second time that Liong Sik had challenged me to produce the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar account. The first time was last July.

I had immediately accepted his challenge and fixed July 10, 1993 at Bukit China in Malacca for Liong Sik to turn up to question the DAP’s Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar account. However, Liong Sik dared not keep the Bukit China appointment.

I am now giving Liong Sik a second chance to prove that since he dared to issue a challenge that I produce the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar account within a week, he dares to turn up for the Kit Siang-Liong Sik ‘mutual verification’ appointment in Bukit China in Malacca where I will accept his challenge.

The DAP is prepared at any time to talk about the DAP Save Bukit China campaign, for all Malaysians know that if not for the DAP, there would be no Bukit China in Malacca today.

Every time the MCA mentions the DAP Save Bukit China campaign, it is a reminder to Malaysians of the ignominous role played by MCA and Liong Sik himself to support the demolition of Bukit China a decade ago!

Let Liong Sik explain how he could satisfy the Chinese community that every sen of donation collected by MCA would be handed over to the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools

Liong Sik had resurrected the MCA lies about the DAP Save Bukit China One-Person One-Dollar Fund because for the past week, not a single MCA leader could answer my demand that the MCA account to the Chinese community on three items of its donations drive making use of the name of Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

I would like to forewarn Liong Sik that he should do enough homeword to explain MCA’s position on these three items at the Bukit China ‘mutual verification’ appointment.

Firstly, Liong Sik should produce all MCA and Huaren Account Fund bank statements, pay-in slips and other bank documents to show where is now the RM3,188,888.88 which he announced on May 27 in Seremban as having been collected already.

He must produce bank documents to show when the donations were banked in, whether in lump sum or separately, to which account, etc and why this RM3,188,888.88 could not be banded straight away to the 60  Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

Secondly, he should produce evidence and bank documents to show much has been collected from its targeted RM6 million form its 600,000 MCA members on the basis of RM10 per member, and whether such collections had been banked and if so into what accounts.

Thirdly, how much the MCA has collected from companies and ‘big donors’ in the last two-and-a-half months using Huaren Fund account’s ‘tax exempt’ status as an inducement, whether they have exceeded RM10 million, and where such money have been banked.

At the MCA launching ceremony for the its nation-wide donation drive for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools held in Seremban on May 27, Liong Sik announced that it had already raised RM3.188 million from 13 ‘big donors’, including two million-ringgit donations.

If 13 donors can donate RM3.188 million to the MCA for the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools by May 27, from one thousand such ‘big donors’ in the nine months from May to January next year, the MCA should have no difficulty in raising RM50 to RM60 million.

How can Liong Sik assure the Chinese community that every sen of such MCA donations would go to the 60 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools?

This question is pertinent because initially MCA had refused to hand over the donations it was collecting by using the name of Chinese Independent Secondary Schools directly to the 60 Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

MCA’s scandalous decision was to keep the total doations which it would collect from the Chinese community making use of the name of Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in its Huaren Fund account and only give out the bank interests to the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools!

It was only after the Dng Jiao Zhong, the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools and the Chinese community expressed their unanimous objection and even condemnation that MCA was forced to change its mind.

Let Liong Sik produce a satisfactory answer as to how the MCA can assure the Chinese community that every sen of donation it collects would be handed over the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools at the Kit Saing-Liong Sik ‘mutual verification’ appointment at Bukit China in Malacca next week!
 
