+++ 
title: "DAP forms National Committee to Defend Land Rights Of Malaysians"
date: "1994-12-06"
tags:
+++

_Press statement (2) by the Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary General and NP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang in Petaling Jaya on Tuesday, 6th December 1994 _

# DAP forms National Committee to Defend Land Rights Of Malaysians 

DAP has formed a National Committee to Defend Land Rights of Malaysians whose first objective will be to mobilize public opinion against land acquisition abuses and injustices and demand equitable reforms to land acquisition laws. </u>

The DAP National Committee to Defend Land Rights of Malaysians comprised the following: 

Chairman: 		Lim Guan Eng 
Deputy Chairman:	Kerk Kim Hock 
Vice Chairman: 	Sin Tong Hin 
Tan Kok Wai 
Lee Yuen Fong 
Secretary: 		Wee Choo Keong
Asst. Secretary: 	Pang Hock Liong 
Chow Kon Yeow 
Lee Kee Hiong 
Treasurer: 		Fung Kui Lun 
Asst. Treasurer: 	Ahmad Ton 
Committee: 	Chua Kow Eng 
Wong Yauk 
Yew Kok Kee 
Lim Hock Seng 
Lok Swee Chin 
Abdul Muluk 
James Wong Wing On 
Ronnie Liu 
A. Pakiyanathan 
Chan Jock Lan 
Lip Tuck Chee 
Fung Ket Wing 
Wong Sing Nan 
George John 
Yeo Yang Kiat 
Heng Hock Jun 
Chan Kok Wah 
Teresa Kok 
Teng Chang Khim 
Advisers: 	Dr. Tan Seng Giaw 
Ahmad Nor 
P. Patto 

The first task of the DAP National Committee to Defend Land Rights of Malaysians will be to organise a National Conference Against Land Acquisition Abuses and Injustices at the Federal Hotel in Kuala Lumpur on Sunday, 8th January 1995. 


This will be the first conference in the history of Malaysia. for the people particularly those affected by uniali land acquisitions as in Seremban II project, the Second Johore-Singapore crossing and second JB township project, the Paya Mengkuang, Ayer Salak, Kuala Sungai Baru, Pantai Kundur and Pantai Merah in Malacca, the Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Sepang, Batu Kawan in Penang and the Kerpan tiger prawn project in Kedah, to come together to devise a common line of action to oppose arbitrary and inequitable land acquisitions and to demand for fair and just reforms to land acquisition laws. 

Up to now, land acquisition controversies have been completely one-sided as the Land Acquisition Act, in particular the 1991 Amendment, has given the state authorities unquestioned power to acquire land for private development by private companies and individuals. This is most unfair and a total negation of the constitutional right to property of all Malaysians. 

The standard retort of state governments and Barisan Nasional leaders to complaints by affected landowners is that they can go to courts if they are not happy with the quantum of compensation offered. 

This however is most unsatisfactory as it is the law of land acquisition which must be reviewed and amended. 

The promise given by Ghafar Baba when he was the Deputy Prime Minister in 1991 that owners affected by land acquisition meant for development by the private sectors would have the chance to take part in such development has been totally forgotten by all the state governments. 

The tin has come for Malaysians to unite to demand for just and equitable reforms of land acquisition laws. 
 
