+++ 
title: "The most honourable and patriotic thing for Rahim to do under the circumstances, pending police investigations into the allegation of his affair with a 15-year old schoolgirl, is to immediately step down as Malacca Chief Minister"
date: "1994-09-02"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary -General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, 
in Petaling Jaya on Friday, September 2, 1994:_

# The most honourable and patriotic thing for Rahim to do under the circumstances, pending police investigations into the allegation of his affair with a 15-year old schoolgirl, is to immediately step down as Malacca Chief Minister.

The Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, said in Gurun yesterday that Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik will remain as Malacca Chief Minister and UMNO Youth leader although an investigation into his alleged affair with a 15-year-old schoolgirl is on-going, as it will be unfair to pass a sentence on him until it is proven he had done something wrong.</u>

I believe the majority of Malaysians do not agree with Mahathir and would want Rahim to step down immediately as Malacca Chief Minister.

Rahim can continue as UMNO Youth leader, because this is an UMNO matter; but he should step down as Malacca Chief Minister to be fair to the people of Malacca and Malaysia by sparing them further ignominy over allegations of his scandals.

I will be the first to defend Rahim on the principle that ‘a person is innocent until proven guilty’ but Rahim should also show his love for the country by immediately stepping down as Malacca Chief Minister so that his agony, trials and tribulations remain a personal one and do not become the agony, trials and tribulations of the people and country!

If Rahim clears his name and establishes his innocence where the allegation that he had an affair with a 15-year-old girl is proved to be untrue, Rahim can resume his post as Malacca Chief Minister.

Mahathir should seek an opinion poll, whether Rahim should step down as Malacca Chief Minister. I have no doubt that the overwhelming majority would be on the opinion that the most honourable and patriotic thing for Rahim to do under the circumstances, pending police investigations into the allegation of his affair, with a 15-year-old schoolgirl, is to relinquish his post as Malacca Chief Minister.
 
