+++ 
title: "Dr. Kang Chin Seng was banned from speaking in Penang State Assembly on the DAP motion on Chinese Independent Secondary Schools and had to run to Bruas to criticise the DAP"
date: "1994-06-11"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, 11th June 1994;_

# Dr. Kang Chin Seng was banned from speaking in Penang State Assembly on the DAP motion on Chinese Independent Secondary Schools and had to run to Bruas to criticise the DAP

		Gerakan Central Publicity Bureau chief, Dr. Kang Chin Seng, was banned from speaking in the Penang State Assembly this week on the DAP motion on Chinese Independent Secondary Schools and had to run to Bruas to criticise the DAP.</u>

		In his speech in Bruas, Dr. Kang attacked the DAP for making a public pledge a week ago that if the DAP captures Penang State Government under the Tanjong 3 project, the Penang State Government would make annual financial allocation of RM200,000 to each of the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in Penang.

		The speech that Dr. Kang made in Bruas was supposed to be made in the State Assembly on Wednesday during the debate on the DAP motion that the Chief Minister should allocate RM200,000 every year to each of the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in Penang, with retrospective effect to 1991.

		However, Dr.Kang was banned from making his speech by the Penang Deputy Chief Minister, Dr. Ibrahim Saad, because Dr. Kang Chin Seng had become an embarrassment to the Barisan Nasional Penang State Government in the State Assembly.

		This was because in the earlier debate on the Penang Yang di Pertua's speech, Dr. Kang made personal attacks not only against the DAP Assemblyman for Bagan Jermal, Phee Boon Poh, but also against Boon Poh's father, Phee Joo Teck and brother, Phee Boon Chin.

		Phee Joo Teck was MCA Penang State Exco member in the fifties and sixties, and is now, together with Phee Boon Chin, Gerakan members.

		Dr. Kang's personal attacks against Boon Poh, Joo Teck and Boon Chin further embarrassed the Penang Barisan Nasional State Government when he refused to apologise when there was a DAP amendment motion on Tuesday to remove Dr. Kang from the Committee of Privileges.

		As a result, nobody from the Barisan Nasional came to his defence in the State Assembly.

		Even Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon was seen shaking his head when Dr. Kang compounded his misbehaviour in trying to justify his attacks on Boon Poh's family.

		This was why although Dr. Kang Chin Seng had prepared his speech to take part in the DAP motion on the annual state government allocation of RM200.000 to each of the Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in Penang, he was banned from taking part in the debate, and had to go to Bruas to deliver the speech.

If DAP succeeds in 'Tanjong 3' Battle, the Penang DAP State Government will set the example in support of Chinese education, Chinese Independent Secondary Schools, and Chinese primary schools  for other state governments to emulate

		Dr. Kang like Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon, joined Gerakan on the slogan to ‘Attack into the Barisan to rectify the Barisan'.

		However, it is Dr. Kang and Tsu Koon who had been 'rectified' by the Barisan Nasional, or they would have supported the DAP motion that the Penang State Government make annual financial allocation of RM200,000 to each of the Penang Chinese Independent Secondary Schools.

		If Dr. Kang has joined the Barisan Nasional to be the 'Chinese educationist' warrior, he should welcome the DAP pledge that a Penang DAP State Government would allocate RM200,000 annually to each of the Penang Chinese Independent Secondary Schools to make them into centres of excellence not only in Malaysia but also in South-East Asia. There is no reason whatsoever for Dr. Kang to be angry at such a DAP pledge unless he is opposing for the sake of opposition!

		Gerakan leaders are fond of boasting that they have the 'sole Chinese Chief Minister' in Malaysia. As the 'sole Chinese Chief Minister' in Malaysia, Tsu Koon has a special responsibility to set the example to support Chinese education for other state governments to follow.

		It is most regrettable that Tsu Koon dare not do this. If the DAP succeeds in the the Tanjong 3 battle to capture power in Penang State in the next general elections, the Penang DAP State Government will set the example in the support to Chinese education, Chinese Independent Secondary Schools and Chinese primary schools for other state governments to emulate.
 
