+++ 
title: "MPPP president, Tan Gim Hwa should explain how he could give Pangkal Permata permissions to put up the ‘one stop centre’ billboard on the Taman Midlands project at the site when there had been no planning approvals, sale and advertising permit or developer’s licence."
date: "1994-01-03"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim kit Siang, in Penang on Monday,3rd   January ,  1994:_

# MPPP president, Tan Gim Hwa should explain how he could give Pangkal Permata permissions to put up the ‘one stop centre’ billboard on the Taman Midlands project at the site when there had been no planning approvals, sale and advertising permit or developer’s licence.

MPPP President , Datuk Tan Gim Hwa, should how he could give Pangkal Permata (M) Sdn. Bhd. Permission to put up the ‘one stop centre’ billboard on the Taman Midlands project at the site when there had been no planning approvals, sale and advertising permit or developer’s licence for the project.</u>

The Taman Midlands ‘ one stop centre’ billboard was put up immediately after the signing of the memorandum of understanding between MPPP and Pangkal Permata (M) Sdn. Bhd and carrying the crest of  the MPPP.

It was only after the Dap queried in the Penang State assembly as to why Pangkal Permata was allowed to display the MPPP crest on ots billboards and other advertistment materials that the MPPP crest was wiped out from the board – with the MPPP claiming that it had not known anout the misuse of the MPPP crest by Pangkal Permata.

Can the MPPP now again claim ignorance that it had given permission to Pangkal Permata to put up the ‘one stop centre’ billboard at the site because it was not aware that Pangkal Permata had not yet received MPPP planning approvals that it did not know that Pangkal Permata had no sale and advertising permit or developer’s licence for the project?

Or had Pangkal Permata illegally put up the ‘ one stop centre’ billboard without any permission from the MPPP – and if so, what is the MPPP doing about such an illegal billboard?

Or is this another example of the double- standards in Tam Gim Hwa’s MPPP – where there are different rules and regulations for different people and companies?
 
