+++ 
title: "DAP sets, up 18-men high-powered committee on malpractices, irreg¬ularities and improprieties in MBf Finance Bhd and MBf Holdings"
date: "1994-03-08"
tags:
+++

_Press Statement by DAP National Publicity Secretary and MP for Kota Melaka Lim Guan Eng in Petaling Jaya on 8.3.94._

# DAP sets, up 18-men high-powered committee on malpractices, irregularities and improprieties in MBf Finance Bhd and MBf Holdings

The DAP has formed a 18-men high-powered committee headed by DAP Secretary-General Lim Kit Siang to investigate into numerous complaints and allegations of malpractices, irregularities and improprieties in MBf Finance Bhd. and MBf Holdings Bhd.</u>

The membership of the DAP Committee to investigate into MBf malpractices, irregularities and improprieties comprise:

-	Dr. Tan Seng Giaw, National Vice Chairman and MP for Kepong
-	Lee Ban Chen, National Vice Chairman
-	Ahmad Nor, National Vice Chairman and MP for Bayan Baru
-	P, Patto, Deputy Secretary-General
-	Liew Ah Kim, Deputy Secretary-General and MP for Seputeh
-	Kerk Kim Hock, National Organising Secretary and MP for Pasir Pinji
-	Lim Guan Eng, National Publicity Secretary and MP for Kota Melaka
-	Dr. Kua Kia Soong, Director of Political Bureau and MP for Petaling Jaya
-	Foong Kui Loon, Assistant National Treasurer and MP for Klang
-	Tan Kok Wai, Asst. National Organising Secretary and MP for Sungei Besi
-	Lau Dak Kee, MP for Ipoh Chian Heng Kai, MP for Bukit Mertajam
-	Lee Yuen Fong, Negri Sembilan State Chairman and Assemblyman for Rahang
-	Chua Kow Eng, Selangor State Chairman and Assemblyman for Bandar Klang
-	Sim Tong Hin, Malacca State Chairman and Assemblyman for Tranquerah
-	Song Sin Kwee, Johore State Chairman
-	Lip Tuck Chee, Pahang State Chairman
-	
The DAP takes a very serious view of the numerous complaints and allegations about MBf malpractices, irregularities and improprieties and will continue with our great traditional role to protect the interests of the small man and woman against the power and vested interests of the big institutions and corporations.

As a first step, the DAP Committee investigating into MBf malpractices, irregularities and improprieties invite public complaints about MBf malpractices, irregularities and improprieties, which should be submitted to the Chairman of the Committee, Lim Kit Siang, c/o DAP Headquarters, No. 24, Jalan 20/9, Paramount Garden, 46300 Petaling Jaya or Telephone 03-7578022/7578127 or to any member of the Committee.

The DAP Committee can assure the public that without their agreement, the identity of the complainants would be kept strictly confidential.

The next step would be for the DAP Committee on MBf malpractices, irregularities and improprieties to decide on the modus operandi to expose the MBf malpractices, irregularities and improprieties after they had been identified, including actions that should be taken by the aothorities concerned to protect the public interest.
 
