+++ 
title: "Anwar Ibrahim is campaigning in the Sabah state general elections as if he is campaigning to be the next Sabah Chief Minister"
date: "1994-02-12"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, February 12, 1994;_

# Anwar Ibrahim is campaigning in the Sabah state general elections as if he is campaigning to be the next Sabah Chief Minister

Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim is campaigning in the Sabah state general elections as if he is campaigning to be the next Sabah Chief Minister. However, Anwar Ibrahim is not one of the Barisan Nasional candidates standing for election on February 18 and 19.</u>

It is clear that the. Barisan Nasional campaign in Sabah is more of a Federal campaign than a Sabah state campaign as is evident in the way the television networks had been manipu¬lated to become part of the Barisan Nasional propaganda arm every day.

The - Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed and his deputy, Anwar Ibrahim, have made a lot of promises to the voters of Sabah during the election campaign, but there is no way they could implement these election promises.

For instance, the voters of Sabah had been promised that the Federal Barisan National leaders would remove any Bari¬san Nasional state leader who is corrupt.

How could Dr. Mahathir and Anwar Ibrahim deliver on such an election pledge when they could not remove corrupt lead¬ers in Peninsular Malaysia?

Who will be the Sabah Chief Minister if Barisan Nasional forms the next government?

It is clear that Anwar Ibrahim, who is personally spearheading the Barisan Nasional campaign in Sabah state general elections, is aware of the great weakness of the Barisan Nasional in Sabah.

This is why Anwar has left unanswered the question: Who will be the Sabah Chief Minister if Barisan Nasional forms the next government?

Dr. Mahathir has promised that the post, of Chief Ministership would be rotated among the three communities if Barisan Nasional topples the PBS state government.

Who and which community would have the first rotation to become a two-year Sabah Chief Minister?

Who are the three Barisan Nasional Chief Minister-designates who would take turns for the rotation of the post?

If Anwar Ibrahim is not prepared to answer these questions, then the people of Sabah and Malaysia would want to know why he could not give the answers.
 
