+++ 
title: "DAP calls for full public inquiry into all aspects of safety at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport after five fires in two years."
date: "1994-09-03"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong,  Lim Kit Siang, 
in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, September 3, 1994:_

# DAP calls for full public inquiry into all aspects of safety at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport after five fires in two years.

Yesterday, there was another fire at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport. This time, it was a short-circuit which caused sparks and smoke, at a money changer’s counter at Terminal One at 10 a.m. The fire was put out by security guards.</u>

This would be the fifth fire at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport in two years! The Transport Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Ling Liong Sik, is indeed breaking his own world record as the Transport Minister with the most international airport fires and disasters!

Malaysians are entitled to ask how many more fires must there be at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport before Liong Sik feels honour-bound to tender his resignation as Transport Minister.

Malaysians are also entitled to ask why the Kuala Lumpur International Airport, is so prone to short-circuit fires, when Liong Sik promised two years ago that the Kuala Lumpur International Airport would be completely re-wired by the end of 1992.

This was because electrical wiring was identified as the cause of the April 6, 1992 fire at Terminal One.

Why is the Kuala Lumpur- International Airport ‘short-circuiting’ with fires after RM4 million total rewiring by the end of 1992?

After five fires in two years at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport, DAP calls for a full public inquiry into all aspects of safety at the airport, as Malaysians have lost total confidence in the Ministry of Transport, Department of Civil Aviation and the Malaysian Airports Bhd on the matter.
 
