+++ 
title: "Keng Talk should produce proof to substantiate his allegation of DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting on April 16, 1990 or be gentlemanly and ethical enough to admit that he had told a lie"
date: "1994-06-14"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Slang, in Penang on Tuesday, June 14, 1994:_

# Keng Talk should produce proof to substantiate his allegation of DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting on April 16, 1990 or be gentlemanly and ethical enough to admit that he had told a lie

		Last Friday, when my defamation suit against the Gerakan President and Minister for Primary Industries, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik, was struck out by the Kuala Lumpur High Court, Keng Talk exulted that he had won the case against me.</u>

		How can Keng Yaik claim that he had won the defamation suit when he had not 
produced an iota of evidence to substantiate his lie of DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting on April 16, 1990?

		Keng Yaik 'exultation' is not that of a person who had produced proof of his allegation of a DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting on April 16, 1990, but the 'exultation' of a person who had told a lie but found that he need not be exposed.

		Keng Yaik knows that there is only one issue in contention in my defamation case against him - that he had told a lie about the so-called DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting on April 16, 1990.

		If Keng Yaik thinks lie has won the defamation case, then let him produce proof to substantiate his allegation of DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta meeting on April 16, 1990.

		The 'mastermind' of Keng Yaik's lie about the DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting was none other than the Gerakan National Publicity Bureau Chief, Dr. Kang Chin Seng. Dr.Rang was so 'inventive’  that in the plot he concocted, he got Keng Yaik to implicate three DAP leaders, namely DAP MP for Siputeh, Liew Ah Kim, DAP MP for Pasir Panji, Kerk Kim Hock and DAP MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Guan Eng.

		In April 1990, Kang Chin Seng publicly said that Keng Yaik had all the information and evidence about the DAP-PAS Secret Meeting in Jakarta and that Keng Yaik would reveal such evidence progressively and at the proper time of his choice.

		More than four years have passed, but Keng Yaik has not been able to produce a single evidence to substantiate his allegation of DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting on April 16, 1990.

		Let Keng Yaik declare whether I could follow his example and accuse him as the most corrupt Minister in Malaysia, who uses his overseas trips to deposit his corruption money in unnumbered Swiss accounts - and when I am challenged for proof reply that I had all the proof which I will progressively reveal at the right time in the next four years?

		It is time that Keng Yaik demonstrate higher moral and ethical standards as a Cabinet Minister. This defamation case is a simple black and white case as to whether he has proof for his allegation of DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting on April 16, 1990.


		If Keng Yaik was not uttering the lie concocted by Dr.Kang Chin Seng about the DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting on April 16, 1990, then let him produce the proof.	

		If he cannot produce any proof, let him be gentlemanly and ethical enough to admit that he had told a lie.

		If Keng Yaik is not prepared to produce proof to substantiate his lie of a DAP-PAS Secret Jakarta Meeting on April 15, 1990, and not prepared to admit and apologise for having told a lie, then I would be left with no choice but to re-institute legal proceedings against him for defamation next week.
 
