+++ 
title: "All-Party Parliamentary Committee on Parliamentary Honour and National Integrity will consider Australian mass media allegations about Malaysian MPs bribed by Australian spies and British mass media allegations about bribery in the RM5 billion Malaysian purchase of British defence hardwares"
date: "1994-02-13"
tags:
+++

_by Chairman of All-Party Parliamentary Committee on Parliamentary Honour and. National Integrity, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Sunday, February 13, 1994:_

# All-Party Parliamentary Committee on Parliamentary Honour and National Integrity will consider Australian mass media allegations about Malaysian MPs bribed by Australian spies and British mass media allegations about bribery in the RM5 billion Malaysian purchase of British defence hardwares

The All-Party Parliamentary Committee on Parliamentary Honour and National Integrity will consider Australian mass media allegations about bribery of Malaysian MPs by Australian, spies and the British mass media allegations about bribery in the RM5 billion purchase of British defence hardwares.</u>

The All-Party Parliamentary Committee on Parliamentary Honour and National Integrity will meet after February 20, when Barisan Nasional component parties, PAS and PBS had, been asked to nominate up to four MPs to serve on the Committee.

On the Australian mass media allegations about the bribery of Malaysian MPs by Australian spies until four years ago, the All-Party Parliamentary Committee would ask for the cooperation of the Inspector-General of Police, Tan Sri Rahim Noor, as he had said that preliminary police investigations had found some evidence to back up the Australian allegations.

In view of the fact that the Canberra Times of February 3 had cleared Malaysian opposition politicians of having been bribed by Australian Secret Intelligence Service (AS1S) and pinpointed government and UMNO MPs as the ones who had been bribed by ASIS until four years ago, the Committee would like to ask the IGP whether he has got the names of these government and UMNO MPs.

The All-Party Parliamentary Committee on Parliamentary Honour and National Integrity must also urgently address the avalanche of British mass media reports in recent weeks about bribery and corruption allegations in the RM5 billion Malaysian purchase of British defence hardware.

The RM5 billion Malaysian purchase of British defence-hardware is also linked to two other scandals - the ‘aids for arms’ scandal involving the RM1.8 billion Pergau hydro-electric dam and the allegations that the British government suppressed important documents connected with the RM2.5 billion Bumiputra finance scandal _for the benefit of the Malaysian authorities.

Dr. Mahathir should give his version of the British mass media allegations about bribery in the RM5 billion Malaysian purchase of British defence hardwares

Former British Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, is being asked to appear before the All-Party Foreign Affairs Select Committee of the British Parliament investigating into the ‘aids for arms’ scandal.

The Malaysian Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, should explain to the All-Party Parliamentary Committee on Parliamentary Honour and National Integrity all aspects of these British mass media reports which gravely tarnish the honour and integrity of Malaysia.

I would propose at the first meeting of the All-Party Parliamentary Committee on Parliamentary Honour and National Integrity that it should ask Dr. Mahathir to give his version of these British mass media allegations of bribery and corruption in the RM5 billion Malaysian purchase of British defence hardwares, and their connections with the Pergau hydroelectric dam and the BMP scandal.
 
