+++ 
title: "ACA Director-General, Tan Sri Zulkifli Moh,ood should explain what is the reason for the ‘waiting game’ between the ACA and the Police in the investigations into MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal"
date: "1994-04-19"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Tuesday, 19th April 1994:_

# ACA Director-General, Tan Sri Zulkifli Moh,ood should explain what is the reason for the ‘waiting game’ between the ACA and the Police in the investigations into MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal

I have received a written answer to my parliamentary question addressed to the Prime Minister on the outcome of the ACA re-opening of investigations into MIC President and Minister for Energy, Telecommunications and Post, Datuk Seri S.Samy Vellu and the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal.</u>

The reply, given by the Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister’s Department, Othman Abdul, states:

“Ekoran pembukaan semula penyiasatan BPR, beberapa orang saksi yang teleah dirakam percakapan mereka tatepi kemudiannya mereka berpaling tadah. Justeru itu, BPR telah membuat aduan rasmi kepada pihak polis untuk tindakan selanjutnya oleh pihak berkenaan kerana saksi-saksi tersebut telah memberi percakapan palsu.”

Last Saturday, the Anti-Corruption Agency Director-General, Tan Sri Zulkifli Mahmood denied that the ACA had stopped its investigations into Samy Vellu and the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal.

However, neither Zulkifli’s denial nor the answer given by the Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister’s Department can throw light as to what is the outcome of the re-opening of investigation by the ACA into the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal.

Has the ACA now handed the whole MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal case to the Police? Or is the ACA waiting for the Police to take action first before the ACA could act? Have we reached a position where the ACA would not take further action on the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal if this ‘waiting game’ between the ACA and the Police? Nobody in Government seems to know!

Is everybody waiting until the next general elections are held and over, before the whole matter is closed for good?

The ACA Director-General should clearly explain, firstky, what is the outcome of the ACA re-opening of investigations into the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal; and secondly, what is the reason for the ‘waiting game’ being played by the ACA and the Police in connection with the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal.

Would Tan Sri Zulkifli support the proposal for the appointment of a Special Prosecutor on MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal to take over from ACA and Police  

Two days ago, I had called on the Cabinet to appoint a Special Prosecutor to take over all investigations into the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal and all matters related to it from the ACA and the Police, with full powers to prosecute all offences which had been committed – whether against corruption laws or other criminal laws.
This is because since I raised the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal in Parliament two years ago, many criminal offences had been committed by MIC leaders but no arrest or prosecution had been initiated by the ACA or the Police.

It is clear that the ACA and the Police are impotent in the face of powerful political influences which had been brought to hear in the investigations into the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal.

Would the ACA Director-General, Tan Sri Zulkifli Mahmood support the proposal for the appointment of a special prosecutor by the Cabinet to take over all aspects of the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal?
 
