+++ 
title: "I will investigate UMNO Youth allegation that Malacca DAP is responsible for spreading the speculation that Rahim Tamby Cik will step down as UMNO Youth leader because of “personal problems” that could affect UMNO"
date: "1994-08-25"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentay Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-general and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Malacca on Thursday, 25th August 1994 at 12 noon_

# I will investigate UMNO Youth allegation that Malacca DAP is responsible for spreading the speculation that Rahim Tamby Cik will step down as UMNO Youth leader because of “personal problems” that could affect UMNO

I will investigate UMNO Youth allegation that Malacca DAP is responsible for spreading the speculation that Tan Sri Rahim Tamby Cik will step down as UMNO Youth leader because of “personal problems” that could affect UMNO.</u>

This allegation was made by the UMNO Youth deputy head, Datuk Nazri Abdul Aziz, yesterday when he expressed his full support for Rahim as UMNO Youth leader.

Nazri accused the Malacca DAP of ‘spreading the speculation’ to undermine Rahim as Malacca Chief Minister as part of the Malacca DAP’s move to win in the next general elections.

Rahim himself denied yesterday that he was relinquishing his post as UMNO Youth leader because of ‘personal problems’.

I find it very significant that when he was asked whether the rumours were linked to allegations that he was “involved” with a 15-year-old girl, Rahim said he was not aware of it.

I will be asking the Malacca DAP to explain whether it is responsible for spreading the rumours about Rahim Tamby Cik stepping down as UMNO Youth leader because of ‘personal problems

Utusan Malaysia was the only paper which carried the ‘scoop’ about Rahim stepping down as UMNO Youth leader because of his ‘personal problems’ in its front-page headline story yesterday.

If Nazri is right that the speculation about Rahim Tamby Cik was being spread by Malacca DAP, I would want Malacca DAP to explain how it could acquire such influence as to get an UMNO-backed daily like Utusan Malaysia to carry the ‘DAP speculation”.

If Malacca DAP has acquired such influence over a UMNO-backed paper like Utusan Malaysia, then there is something for DAP Headquarters to learn from Malacca DAP!

I invite Nazri to submit evidence to me that the Malacca DAP is responsible for the speculation about Rahim and for influencing Utusan Malaysia to carry the front-page story yesterday.

However, the most significant developments yesterday was not Rahim’s denial or Nazri’s allegation but two things:

	*the position of the Deputy Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim, who said he had ‘no comments at this time’ on Rahim’s ‘personal problems’ and stepping down as UMNO Youth leader; and

	*Rahim’s conspicuous absence from the Barisan Nasional 20th anniversary public rally at Dataran Merdeka last night.

Malaysians can draw their own conclusion.
 
