+++ 
title: "DAP to move am urgent motion in parliament on Monday on the scandal of over 30,000 duplicate voters, including the multiple registration of 13 different voters, using the same identity card number in the 1993 certified electoral roll"
date: "1994-12-03"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement  by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, December 3, 1994_

# DAP to move am urgent motion in parliament on Monday on the scandal of over 30,000 duplicate voters, including the multiple registration of 13 different voters, using the same identity card number in the 1993 certified electoral roll

The DAP will move an urgent motion in parliament on Monday on the scandal of over 30,000 duplicate voters, including the multiple registration of 13 different voters, using the same identity card number in the 1993 certified electoral roll.</u>

This scandal, which was exposed by the DAP in the past week, has become even more serious as the result of the unbelievable denial of the Election Commission Chairman Datuk Harun Din and the commission secretary Datuk Abdul Rashid Abdul Rahman that there are neither phantom voters nor duplicate names in the 1993 electoral roll.

I find this most shocking and unbelievable as I had not merely made general allegations, but also produced specific examples of duplicate and even multiple registration of voters using the same identity card number, involving different names, addresses, gender, races and electoral constituencies.

Two days ago, I exposed the case of 13 multiple registration of voters using the same identity card but involving 13 different names, twelve as Malay and one as Indian, out of whom eight are women and five men, in the Lembah Pantai Parliamentary constituency in Federal Territory.

These 13 multiple registration of voters using different names but with the same identity card number have different addresses for nine while four gave unnumbered addresses.

These 13 multiple registration of voters using the same I/C number from kampong Sentosa are as follows:-

100/16 Kampong Sentosa

Bil.	No. KP		Nama							No. Rumah
1190	3876303	Ainon bt Shamsuddin
1191	3876303	Amzah b Baba						401-C
1192	3876303	Arifin b Din						34C
1193	3876303	Embon bt Mohd Rani					34C
1194	3876303	Endon bt Madih						
1195	3876303	Halimah bt Harun					170A
1196	3876303	Iyah bt Talib						79C
1197	3876303	Mathan b Din						34-C
1198	3876303	Mazlan b Jaafar
1199	3876303	Nagappan Sallan
1200	3876303	Ramilah bt Mahat					104C
1201	3876303	Shamsiah bt Abas					200-C
1202	3876303	Zaharah bt Yusop					43C

If Datuk Harun din and Rashid want to claim that there are no duplicate voters in the 1993 electoral roll, they should then challenge the veracity of the facts and figures which I have given, including the instances of 13 multiple registrations. They should for instance disprove the instances of duplicate registration which I had given, and challenge me to produce examples of duplicate registration which I cannot substantiate from the 1193 electoral roll.

However, they are unable to do so as I had based mu expose of the scandal of 30,000 duplicate voters from the 1993 electoral roll which have been certified by the Election Commission itself.

I am prepared to have a public meeting with Election Commission Chairman and secretary to produce the 30,000 duplicate voters in the 1993 electoral roll

I am prepared to have a public meeting with Datuk Harun Din and Rashid to produce a full list of the 30,000 duplicate voters from the 1993 electoral roll, in the presence of the mass media as well as representatives from all political parties. All that harun and Rashid need to do is to name the time, date and place and I would be there.

Why then are the Election Commission Chairman and secretary trying to deny the undeniable?

Datuk Harun Din said that if there were two voters with the same identity card number, it did not mean that there were phantom voters in the roll. He said that this was a technicality due to mistakes made by the voters when writing down their identity card number when filling the voter registration form. He said the mistake probably involved one or two digits in the identity card number. He also said the mistake could have also occurred when the Election Commission staff were storing the identity card numbers in the computer.

These are completely unacceptable reasons as they cannot explain how there could be such a huge number of duplicate voters exceeding 30,000 voters in the country, and how there could be 13 multiple registration of voters using the same identity card number, involving different names, addresses, gender and race.

Furthermore, if multiple registration is a result of simple technical error arising from mistaken made in computer storing or filling of forms, it should be very easy for the computer system to identify them and clean-up the electoral roll before it is certified.

The weak and completely unacceptable and unbelievable explanation by the Election Commission on the scandal of 30,000 duplicate voters have raised further questions about the integrity and honesty of the electoral roll preparation.

For this reason, the DAP has decided to raise an urgent motion on the issue in parliament next Monday and demand that there must be an independent enquiry into the scandal of 30,000 duplicate voters and safeguards must be taken to ensure that there would be a clean and honest electoral list for the next general elections.
 
