+++ 
title: "University of Malaya Council is ‘burying its head in the sand’ in its irresponsible attitude over the serious allegation of plagiarism against one of its new Professors"
date: "1994-03-11"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader,  DAP  Secretary General  and HP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Friday, March 11, 1994:_

# University of Malaya Council is ‘burying its head in the sand’ in its irresponsible attitude over the serious allegation of plagiarism against one of its new Professors

The University of Malaya Council is ‘burying its head in the sand’ in its irresponsible attitude over the serious allegation of plagiarism against, one of its new Professors.</u>

Yesterday, after the University of Malaya Council meeting, the new University of Malaya Vice Chancellor, Datuk Dr. Abdullah Sanusi Ahmad made the shocking statement that the plagiarism allegation “is a private matter and the council does not want to have anything at all to do with it.”

In treating the plagiarism, allegation like a private dispute between a petroleum wholesaler with petroleum retailers, Dr. Abdullah has done the University of Malaya a great disservice, for there does not seem to be any pride over the academic and scholastic reputation of the institution.

The University of Malaya Council decision yesterday also makes a complete mockery of the directive of the Minister of Education, Datuk Dr. Sulaiman Daud last month to the Council to investigate the plagiarism allegation.

The University of Malaya Council has abdicated its responsibility when it ‘washed its hands’ over the whole plagiarism controversy, by relegating it into a ‘private matter’ to be sorted out elsewhere!

The University of Malaya Council has not only failed the University of Malaya but the country in its failure to nurture a tradition of academic excellence and distinction. The time has come for a full review of the composition and appointment of the University of Malaya Council.

If the University of Malaya Council is not prepared to take a strong stand against plagiarism by lecturers and profes¬sors and uphold the tradition of academic excellence and distinction, then Parliament will have to debate this issue in depth at its meeting next month.
 
