+++ 
title: "DAP supports Mahathir’s call for the resignation of Boutros Boutros-Ghali as UN Secretary-General because of his abysmal failure to stop Serbian genocide of Bosnians or to upholds UN declaration of six Bosnian ‘safe areas’"
date: "1994-04-23"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, 23rd April 1994:_

# DAP supports Mahathir’s call for the resignation of Boutros Boutros-Ghali as UN Secretary-General because of his abysmal failure to stop Serbian genocide of Bosnians or to upholds UN declaration of six Bosnian ‘safe areas’ 

DAP supports the call by the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, for the resignation of Boutros Boutros-Ghali as United Nations Secretary-General because of his abysmal failure to stop Serbian genocide or to uphold UN declaration of six Bosnian ‘safe areas’.</u>

Last year, DAP had called for the resignation of Boutros Boutros-Ghali as UN Secretary-General and in January this year, DAP called on the international community to remove him as UN Secretary-General for his failure to implement UN resolutions to check Serbian genocide in Bosnia-Herzegovina.

Boutros Boutros-Ghali has lost all moral authority and credibility to continue as UN Secretary-General when under his tenure, the Serb aggressors had been allowed to perpetrate ethnis cleansing and genocide in Bosnia-Herzegovina causing the death of more than 200,000 people, while more than a million people had been made refugees , and tons of thousands of women raped.

The Serb anslaught on Gorazde, one of the six UN-declared ‘safe areas’, which killed 486 people and wounded 1,467 since the offensive began three weeks ago, is the latest example of the impotence and failure of Boutros Boutros-Ghali as UN Secretary-General to end the genocide in Bosnia-Herzegovina.

UN relief workers have described Gorazde as “a living hell” where the wounded lie crying amid debris and the dead are buried at night under a thin layer of sand, and where the hospital had also been bombed by the besieging Serb artillery. In one day alone, 97 people had died in Gorazde!

Malaysia should spearhead an international campaign for the removal of Boutros Boutros-Ghali as UN Secretary-General, starting with the Non-Aligned Movement which constitutes the majority of UN membership.

Boutros Boutros-Ghali’s impotence and failure as UN Secretary-General has also imperiled the lives of international UN peacekeepers like the death of Mejar Ramli Shaari, 43, who was killed on duty in Croatia on Tuesday.

DAP calls on the Government to assume full responsibility for the education of the five children of the late Mej Ramli Shaari until university level, as a gesture of appreciation of the nation to Mej Ramli Shaari who died in the service of the nation and the international community.   
 
