+++ 
title: "Liong Sik must be the next to ‘exed’ after the DCA Director-General because of the Subang radar station fire"
date: "1994-08-25"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Thursday, 25th August 1994:_

# Liong Sik must be the next to ‘exed’ after the DCA Director-General because of the Subang radar station fire

DAP fully supports the removal of Datuk Zaludin Sulong as the Director-General of the Department of Civil Aviation.</u>

It is the height of bureaucratic arrogance for Zaludin Sulong to claim at a press conference a few hours before he was removed from the top post in DCA that he was “the best man for the job”.

That the Director-General of DCA could claim to be the “best man for the job” after the third Subang International Airport fire in two years, and the stuped attempt to ‘cover up’ accountability in the public service which Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed had been trying to promote since he became Prime Minister 13 years ago.

However, the removal of Dauk Zaludin Sulong has failed to make the necessary impact on changing the bureaucratic mindset because, as Zaludin himself pointed out yesterday, he had been confirmed in his grade and he would be on the grade in his new posting.

Zaludin said: “I don’t regard it as a demotion or a penalty, but part of the circumstances of the job one is entrusted with. I am taking everthing in my stride.”

From Zaludin’s comments, the removal of Zaludin as DCA Director-General has failed completely to promote the culture of accountability in the government and bureaucracy.

However, can we balme Zaludin for such shocking attitude – when the Transport Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Ling Long Sik could claim to be an ‘optimist’ after three Subang International Airport fires in two years – as if he would not mind if there are a few more Kuala Lumpur International Airport fires during his term in the Ministry.

If the government is serious about promoting a culture of accountability in the bureaucracy and government, then over the third Subang International Airport fire in two years, the two following actions should be taken:

	*Firstly, the removal of Datuk Seri Dr. Ling Long Sik as Transport Minister; and

	*Secondly, the sacking of Datuk Zaludin Sulong as DCA Director-General, and no new postings, or what is even more meaningless, confirming him on his grade in any new posting.

Liong Sik must be the next to be ‘axed’ after the DCA Director-General, or any action taken against Datuk Saludin Sulong would be meaningless and unfair.
 
