+++ 
title: "DAP calls on Cabinet to do justice to the 28,000 Telekom non-executive employees on the Employees Share Option Scheme (ESOS) by allocating another 30 million shares at par from the government stake in Telekoms"
date: "1994-02-22"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Tuesday, February 22, 1994:_

# DAP calls on Cabinet to do justice to the 28,000 Telekom non-executive employees on the Employees Share Option Scheme (ESOS) by allocating another 30 million shares at par from the government stake in Telekoms

DAP calls on the Cabinet to do justice to the 28,000 Telekom non-executive employees on the Employees. Share Option Scheme (SSOS) by allocating another 30 million shares at par from the government stake in Telekoms.</u>

The 28,000 Telekom non-executive employees must not be penalised and denied of their SSOS share because of breach of trust by the Telekom management, which unfairly distributed the 29,5 million ESQS Telekom shares to the 3,000 executives only when they were meant for distribution to the 28,000 non-executive employees as well!

It is clearly unfair and unacceptable that the 28,000 non-executive employees were denied their share, while executives monopolised the distribution, with the Telekom Executive Chairman, Tan Sri Rashdan Baba, receiving 300 lots himself!

DAP welcomes the assurance given by the Human Re¬sources Minister, Datuk Lim Ah Lek, that he would bring up the is.sue of the Telekom ESQS and the fight of the National Union of Telekom Employees (NUTE} for a fair distribution of SSOS at the Cabinet tomorrow.

This is an issue which deserves the support of all Cabinet Ministers irrespective of party. If all Cabinet Minis-tars pledge support on this issue, then the 28,000 Telekom nonexecutive employees can look forward to good news after the Cabinet meeting tomorrow.

The Cabinet should also institute an inquiry as to how the 28,000 non-executive Telekom employees were denied of their share in the ESOS and to take action against those responsible for such abuses of power and breach of trust.

The DAP will raise this issue in the April Parliament if the Cabinet is unsympathetic and unresponsive to the demands of the NUTE and the 23,000 non-executive Telekom employees,
 
