+++ 
title: "Voters, of Tanjong Papat and Elqpura should buy ‘political insurance’ for the people of Sabah by voting two DAP Assemblymen into Sabah Assembly to protect their rights and interests for the next five years"
date: "1994-02-16"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement (2) by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Sandakan on Wednesday, 16th February 1994_

# Voters of Tanjong Papat and Elopura should buy ‘political insurance’ for the people of Sabah by voting two DAP Assemblymen into Sabah Assembly to protect their rights and interests for the next five years

The voters of Tanjong Papat and Elopura have a historic responsibility when they cast their votes on February 19, for they must buy ‘political insurance’ for the people of Sabah by voting Sdr. Fung Ket Wing and Sdr. Ang Lian Hai as DAP Assembly men into the Sabah Assembly to protect their rights and interests for the next five years.</u>

The voters of Tanjong Papat and Elopura must not think merely- about polling day on February 19 or only think of their own interests, but must think of the political scenario in Sabah in the next, five years and the interests of the people and the entire state of Sabah.

Although PBS is expected to be returned, to power with Joseph Pairin Kitingan as Sabah Chief Minister without much problem on February 19, the voters of Tanjong Papat and Elopura must also think what could happen after February 19.

PBS leaders have openly talked about discussing with Barisan Nasional leaders after February 19 to return to the Barisan Nasional.

When this happens Sabah State Assembly would become a one-party state unless the people of Tanjong Papat and Elopura voted two DAP Assemblymen as the voice of all Sabahans into the State Assembly.

Sabahans should realise how unhealthy and dangerous it is when Sabah virtually becomes a one-party state, with no oppo¬sition in the Sabah State Assembly. The people of Sabah have ample experience in the past of the terrible truth of the adage ‘Power corrupts and absolutely power tends to corrupt absolutely’ and must take steps to ensure that the dictatorial eras of the past do not return in the nineties.

This is why the voters of Tanjong Papat and Elopura should buy ‘political insurance’ for all Sabahans on Saturday, so even if PBS returns to the Barisan Nasional after February 19, "hare would be two DAP Assemblymen to provide the people’s voice ~nd protect the people’s interests in the Sabah State Assembly,

Hew can the rotation of the post of Sabah Chief Minister prevent ‘one race from dominating others’ if the real powers would be exercised by UMNO leaders from Kuala Lumpur?

Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon said in Sanda¬kan yesterday that the Barisan Nasional proposal for the rotation of the post of Sabah Chief Minister among the three communities is a good one as it would be able to prevent "one race from ‘dominating others’.

Tsu Koon should explain how this proposal for the rotation of the post of Sabah Chief Minister among the three communities could prevent ‘one race from dominating others’ if the real powers would be exercised, by UMNO leaders from Kuala Lumpur?

A two-year Chief Minister would know that he has no real powers and would not dare to take any major policy decision without the ‘green-light’ from his political masters.

Tsu Koon is Penang Chief Minister in name but not in fact

Tsu Koon should know from personal experience, for although he is Penang Chief Minister in name, he is not Penang Chief Minister in fact. Everyone in Penang knows that the most powerful person in the Penang State Government is not Tsu Koon but the Deputy Chief Minister from UMNO, Dr. Ibrahim Saad. In fact, Tsu Koon has even less powers than the President of the Penang Island Municipal Council, Datuk Tan Gim Hwa, who is the Penang Gerakan Chairman while Tsu Koon is only Penang Gerakan Vice Chairman.

Tsu Koon is therefore the best example that even more important than having a Chinese Chief Minister is having a Chinese Chief Minister who has real powers.

It is precisely because Tsu Koon is not a Penang Chief Minister with real powers like Datuk Josteph Pairin Kitingan that he dare not approve Penang State Government grants for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools in Penang.
 
