+++ 
title: "DAP has no intention of launching a nation-wide signature campaign to demand the resignation or removal of Ling Liong Sik as Transport Minister because of three Kuala Lumpur International Airport fires in two years"
date: "1994-08-23"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Tuesday, August 23, 1994:_

# DAP has no intention of launching a nation-wide signature campaign to demand the resignation or removal of Ling Liong Sik as Transport Minister because of three Kuala Lumpur International Airport fires in two years

DAP has no intention of launching a nation-wide signature campaign to demand the resignation or removal of MCA President, Datuk Seri Dr. Ling Liong Sik as Trasnport Minister because of three Kuala Lumpur International Airport fires in two years.</u>

There is no doubt that if there is a public opinion poll, 100 per cent of Malaysians who are not MCA members would support the call for the resignation or removal of Liong Sik as Transport Minister because of the latest Subang Airport radar station fire – and the majority of MCA members would also support the call if they do not have to reveal their identity.

In the circumstances, there is no need for the DAP to waste its time to launch any nation-wide signature campaign to demand the resignation or removal of Liong Sik as Trasnport Minister, as this demand is the common bond uniting all Malaysians regardless of race on this issue.

If this national consensus contimues to be ignored and defied by the Government and Liong Sik, then they will have to pay a heavy political price in terms of forfeiting public confidence and support.

The 1,400 signatures collected in Ipoh on Friday night at the DAP Peak State Dinner in Ipoh was a simultaneous  response of the people towards the latest transport scandal of Liong Sik, and the DAP has better things to do than to waste time on a nation-wide siganature campaign to demand for the removal or resignation of Liong Sik.

In fact, from the narrow political interests of DAP, it is better for Liong Sik to remain as Transport Minister during the next general elections, because he would present the easiest target as compared to a new Transport Minister.

However, the DAP had never acted just for narrow party interests, as we always put national an dpublic interest above party and self-interest.

Is Liong Sik implying that he is such an ‘optimist’ that he would continue as Trasnport Minister even if there are a few more Kuala Lumpur Internation Airport fires during his term as Minister?

Malaysians must be shocked that after three Kuala Lumpur International Airport fires in two years, Liong Sik could take the three airport disasters ‘very lightly’ by declaring that he had always been an ‘optimist’ at the MCA Sri Kembangan dinner on Sunday night.

Is Liong Sik implying that he is such an ‘optimist’ that he would contimue as Transport Minister even if there are a few more Kuala Lumpur International Airport fires during his term as Minister?

I do not know where Liong Sik has learnt his political philosophy of ‘optimism’ in the face of disasters for the people and the country arising from incompetence, irreponsibility, negligence and failure of leadership in his Ministry.

It cannot be the result of the ‘Look East’ Policy, as Japan, South Korea and Taiwan would not have Transport Ministers who would declare that they are such ‘optimists’ that they would continue as Transport Minister despite transport disaster after transport disaster, international airport fire after international airport fire.

Having such an ‘optimist’ as a Transport Minister, who regards his Ministerial responsibility so frivolously and flippantly, is definitely not the result of the ‘Look East Policy’ and no blessing whatsoever to Malaysians and the country.
 
