+++ 
title: "‘True Gold is Not Afraid of Furnace Fire’ and I am prepared to meet the Prime Minister and the IGP over the preposterous allegation that Australian spies had bribed opposition politicians and MPs."
date: "1994-02-03"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Thursday, February 3, 1994:_

# ‘True Gold is Not Afraid of Furnace Fire’ and I am prepared to meet the Prime Minister and the IGP over the preposterous allegation that Australian spies had bribed opposition politicians and MPs.

‘True Gold is Not Afraid of Furnace Fire’ and I am prepared to meet the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed and the Inspector-General of Police, Tan Sri Abdul Rahim Mohamed Noor over the preposterous allegation that Australian spies had bribed Opposition politicians and MPs.</u>

I am not afraid at all if the special Police investigation announced by the IGP into the Australian report is going to be a professional job, based on facts and evidence which could stand up in a court of law and not to be influenced in any way by political considerations.

However, from past experience, I will be very worried if the police investigation is only a ‘cover’ for the Barisan Nasional government to harass, persecute and victimise Opposition politicians without any shred of evidence whatsoever.

I would like to meet Tan Sri Abdul Rahim to find out whether the Police would conduct a fully professional investigation into the Australian report and would not be subject to any political influence or hysterical demands by certain political leaders in the Barisan Nasional – in particular from the Gerakan.

I would seek to have an appointment with the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed, on his return from his official visit to the Philippines on the allegation as it must be regarded a matter of grave national concern, transcending party, which has tarnished the image and integrity of Parliament and the entire nation.

I would propose to the Prime Minister that an emergency meeting of Parliament should be held to demand that the Australian Government declare its stand and for the establishment of an All-Party Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to go to Australia to investigate the allegation.

Although such an emergency meeting of Parliament would be held during Puasa month, it is imperative that it be held.

After all, if polling for the Sabah state general elections could be held during the Puasa month, there is no reason why an emergency meeting of Parliament could not be held during Puasa month when the issues involved are even more important, as they concerned the image and integrity of the country in the international community.
 
