+++ 
title: "Gerakan’s double-standards in refusing DAP to use Taman Free School grounds for a DAP 10,000-People Dinner shows Tsu Koon’s fear of DAP as well his subservience to Tan Gim Hwa"
date: "1994-08-09"
tags:
+++

_Press Conference Statement by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretay-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang at the Penang DAP Hqrs on Tuesday, 9th August 1994 at 11.30 am_

# Gerakan’s double-standards in refusing DAP to use Taman Free School grounds for a DAP 10,000-People Dinner shows Tsu Koon’s fear of DAP as well his subservience to Tan Gim Hwa

Gerakan’s double-standards in refusing DAP to use Taman Free School grounds for a DAP 10,000-People Dinner shows Tsu Koon’s fear of DAP as well as his subservience to Tan Gim Hwa.</u>

Any student knows that the Gerakan is guilty of the shameful practice of “Allowing Officials to Start Fires, Not Permitting the People to Light Lamps” when Gim Hwa and MPPP refused to allow the DAP to use Taman Free School Grounds for a 10,000-People DAP Dinner when Gerakan Jelutong Division held a political dinner on the same grounds on July 17, 1994.

This is a simple ‘right or wrong’, ‘black or white’ issue, which even primary school pupils in their morals lessons can distinguish – but somehow, Gerakan leaders including the Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon – who has a Ph.D. – cannot distinguish.

In allowing Gerakan to practice double-standards and abuse the trust it is exercising, whether at state or local government level in Penang, Tsu Koon has shown two things: Firstly, his fear of the DAP with the approach of the coming general elections and the Battle of Tanjong 3; and his subservience to Tan Gim Hwa, which is another proof that Tsu Koon as Chief Minister has to serve two ‘master’ in the Penang State, Dr. Ibrahim Saad and Tan Gim Hwa!

The Battle of Tanjong 3 in Penang will decide whether DAP can capture the Penang State Government. If DAP succeeds in forming the next Penang State Government, it will mean the end of Gerakan, not only in Penang but also in Malaysia.

If Gerakan is returned to Penang state government in next elections, with or without Tsu Koon as Chief Minister, Tan Gim Hwa would be ‘uncheckable’ whether at local or state government level 

It is understandable therefore that when faced with such a ‘life-or-death’ battle, the Gerakan government leaders would be very careful so as to not o be seen publicly as abusing their powers, antagonize the people and lose votes.

However, the Gerakan double-standards on the Taman Free School grounds issue shows that Tan Gim Hwa soes not care for the people – and should serve as warning that should the Gerakan be retutned to Penang State Government in the next general elections, with or without Tsu Koon as penang Chief Minister, Tan Gim Hwa would be ‘uncheckable’ and there would be blatant abuses of power, whether at the local government or state government level.

As sure as ‘night follows day’, if Gerakan is returned to Penang State Government in next general elections, there would not only be no reconstruction of Hotel Metropole but MPPP permission would be given for full redevelopment of the present site.

The Hotel Metropole scandal is another good example. Last Thursday, Gim Hwa announced that the MPPP has approved a one-year extension for the reconstruction of Hotel Metropole at Jalan Sultan Ahmad Shah.

Tan Gim Hwa said that the MPPP had approved the extension following an appeal by the owner, Dolphin Square Sdn. Bhd.

He even said that the owner had written to the council, asking for the original plan, with the possibility of reconstructing the building.

Who believes this Tan Gim Hwa ‘story’? I for one do not buy it. The one-year extension is a mere delay to buy time until the general elections is over.

Is Gim Hwa saying that Dolphin Square Sdn. Bhd. now admits that is has committed a sacrilege against Penang heritage, history and culture by demolishing Hotel Metropole? Then why had Dolphin Square Sdn. Bhd. contested against the MPPP in court upholding its right to demolish Hotel Metropole?

This is all play-acting, with Tan Gim Hwa as the main actor!

I believe as sure as ‘night follows day’, after the next general elections, if Gerakan is returned to Penang State Government, with or without Tsu Koon, there will not only be no reconstruction of Hotel Metropole, MPPP will give permission for the full redevelopment of the Hotel Metropole site!

The Hotel Metropole demolition already stinks. With the one-year extension given by MPPP to Dolphin Square  Sdn. Bhd., the Hotel Metropole scandal stinks even more.

No wonder, Gim Hwa is afraid of a DAP 10,000-People Dinner at Taman Free School grounds where the Hotel Metropole scandal would be one of the issues to be highlighted.

Is Tsu Koon in the know about this scandalous one-year extension granted by the MPPP to Dolphin Square Sdn. Bhd.? A Chief Minister with power would have sacked the entire lot of MPPP councilors for this latest Hotel Metropole scandal. I do not expect anything from Tsu Koon however.
 
