+++ 
title: "DAP fully supports the Securities Commission decision that share application forms should be made available in newspapers to overcome abuses blatant in the HICOM issue"
date: "1994-02-01"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Tuesday, 1st February 1994:_

# DAP fully supports the Securities Commission decision that share application forms should be made available in newspapers to overcome abuses blatant in the HICOM issue.

DAP fully supports the Securities Commission decision that share application forms should be made available in newspapers to overcome abuses blatant in the HICOM issue, like syndicates which hog the forms to sell them for as high as RM300 each when it is distributed free.</u>

Long queues from 5 a.m. in rain or shine to get the share application forms, with many disappointed when their turn came, is also an indictment on the efficiency and competence of the issuing house, the MIDF Consultancy and Corporate Services Snd. Bhd.

In this connection, is the Securities Commission Chairman, Dr. Munir Abdul Majid, asking the MIDFCCS to extend the February 14 deadline by two weeks to February 28 because of these abuses, and to make sure that the manipulators of the system do not succeed in denying small investors the opportunity to participate in the HICOM shares issue?

How many of the HICOM issue of 82.55 million shares are reserved for Barisan Nasional Ministers and political leaders?

In this connection, the Malaysian public have the right to know how many of the HICOM issue of 82.55 million shares are reserved for Barisan Nasional Ministers and political leaders, whether to them personally or for them to nominate organisations, groups and individuals.

In the past, it had been the practice for certain portions of shares issue like TELEKOMS, TENAGA, MAS, MISC to be reserved to Barisan Nasional Ministers and political leaders for them to nominate receipients. This is why the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal erupted. Is the same practice still being practised in the case of the 82.55 million HICOM shares issue?
 
