+++ 
title: "The second near-miss collision between two air-crafts at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport runway yesterday - the second in three weeks - has further ‘blackened’ Malaysia’s credibility and reputation as a reliable and safe aviation centre"
date: "1994-09-08"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Thursday, September 8, 1994:_

# The second near-miss collision between two air-crafts at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport runway yesterday - the second in three weeks - has further ‘blackened’ Malaysia’s credibility and reputation as a reliable and safe aviation centre.

The second near-miss collision between two aircrafts at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA) runway yesterday has further ‘blackened’ Malaysia’s credibility and reputation as a reliable and safe aviation centre.</u>

Yesterday, a Malaysia Airlines B737-400 was forced to abort landing and overshoot the runway when a Singapore Airlines Airbus 310 overtook, and landed ahead of it at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport, in Subang at about 5 p.m.

The MAS aircraft from Kota Kinabalu had been given clearance to land first by the air traffic control tower to be followed by the SIA Airbus from Singapore - the separation time between the two aircraft was believed to be between 30 seconds and one minute, compared to the usual four minutes.

The haze has been given as the probable cause of the ‘near-miss collision’ between two aircrafts at the runway yesterday, especially with poor visibility which was down to 100 metres yesterday.

Another reason could be that the pilot of the SIA aircraft which was at a greater height on the glide slope and flying faster could have thought the MAS aircraft had landed.

The MAS pilot who all along thought the SIA aircraft was trailing him was shocked when he saw the aircraft rolling on the runway, and had to abort, landing and overshoot the runway.

This is the second ‘near -miss collision’ between two aircrafts at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport runway since the Subang radar Station fire on August 13 which which knocked out the RM16.5 million terminal approach radar at Bukit Subang and the air traffic controllers had to resort to manual control.

The ‘near-miss collision’ between two aircrafts at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport yesterday was the second such incident in three weeks since the Subang radar station fire.

On August 17, there was a ‘near-miss collision’ between a Malaysian Airlines Boeing 737-400 and an Eva Air Boeing 767-300 aircraft on the airport runway.

The incident took place at 2.30 p.m. on that day, and the pilot of the MAS aircraft MH 710 from Jakarta, winch-was coming to land had to make a turnaround to avoid crashing into the rear of the Eva Boeing which was taxiing on the runway.

Perak DAP Assemblyman for Jalong, Ngoi Thiarn Woh, was an eye-witness to this ‘near-miss collision’ as he was a passenger on the MH 710 flight.

DAP calls on the Cabinet, and all Malaysians to ‘fantasize’ that Malaysia has an accident-free Kuala Lumpur International Airport from now on¬wards, and that Liong Sik is no more the Transport Minister.
I really do not know what to say about, the Transport Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Ling Liong Sik who during his tenure has chalked up the-following list of infamy for the Kuala Lumpur International Airport:

* Five fires at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport in two years;

* Two goldbar robberies at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport in four months; 

* Two ‘near-miss collision’ between aircrafts at the-airport runway in three weeks.

After the second ‘near-miss collision’ of aircrafts at the airport runway, Malaysians must be reconsidering their flying plans as air travel in Malaysia, especially going through the Kuala Lumpur International Airport has acquired higher risks!

The Statement by a Department of Civil Aviation spokesman that the incident yesterday was ‘not alarming’ and that the MAS pilot had full control of the situation has compounded public reservations about the safety of the Kuala Lumpur International Airport, the competence of the Department of Civil Aviation and Malaysian Airports Bhd and the fitness of Liong Sik to continue as Transport Minister.

This is because such a statement shows that the Transport Ministry and the DCA continue to display the mentality that accidents and disasters at the airport are inevitable when what Malaysians want is a completely new mentality and attitude in the Transport Ministry and the DCA that all-disasters and accidents at the KLlA are avoidable!
 
Malaysians are also asking why May Liong Sik has nothing to say about the second ‘near-miss collision’ of aircrafts at the airport runway in three weeks, when he could make a ‘publicity-jamboree’ of a Subang Airport toilet fire which had caused minimal damage!

Yesterday, the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed invited economists, financiers and bureaucrats to ‘fantasize’ with him on some of his theories in development and financial management

DAP calls on Mahathir, the Cabinet and Malaysians to first ‘fantasize’ that Malaysia has an accident free Kuala Lumpur International Airport from now onwards and that Liong Sik is no more the Transport Minister.

After the latest ‘near-miss collision’ at the KLIA, Malaysians are entitled to ask two questions:

* Firstly, how many more airport fires, goldbar robberies and ‘near-miss collision’ of aircrafts at the airport runway before Liong Sik is prepared to concede that in the public interest, he must step down, as Transport Minister? and

* Secondly, how many more airport fires, goldbar robberies and ‘near-miss collision’ of aircraft would Mahathir tolerate before he would remove Liong Sik as Transport Minister - to protect the international image and reputation of Malaysia as a reliable and safe international airport, and investment centre and tourist destination as well as to protect, the safety of air travelers.
 
