+++ 
title: "Police should interrogate Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon for evidence that Malaysian opposition politicians have not only been bribed by foreign governments, but also by foreign media"
date: "1994-03-11"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Friday, March 11, 1994:_

# Police should interrogate Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon for evidence that Malaysian opposition politicians have not only been bribed by foreign governments, but also by foreign media

The Malaysian Police should interrogate the Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Ron Tsu Koon for evidence to substantiate his allegation that Malaysian opposition politicians have not only been bribed by foreign governments, but also by the foreign media.</u>

I am sure that as Penang Chief Minister, Dr. Koh Tsu Koon would show his responsibility by voluntarily handing over such evidence to the Police, which is investigating into Australian press reports that Malaysian politicians and MPs had been taking bribes from the Australian Secret. Intelligence Service (ASIS).

It has been reported today that the Canberra Times had declared that it would net divulge its sources to the Malaysian police. The Canberra Times carried a report on February 3, 1994 clarifying that the Malaysian politicians and MPs who had been receiving bribes from ASIS until four years ago were not from the opposition but from Government and UMNO.

The Australian Journalists’ Union and the Australian Media, Entertainment, and Arts Alliance have also rejected suggestions that Australian reporters should reveal to Malaysian police their sources for their allegations that Australian spies had bribed Malaysian politicians.

The Malaysian Police should seek the co-operation of the Australian reporters and editors, not to ask them to violate the code of journalist ethics to prejudice sources or breach any other confidences, but to help verify the allegations as well as to identify the Malaysian politicians and MPs who had been re-ceiving bribes from ASIS.

! for one would want to know who are the government and UMNO MPs and politicians who had been taking bribes from ASIS until four years ago, when allegedly, such ASIS bribes were discontinued - whether such politicians have risen to higher positions in government in the past four years.
 
