+++ 
title: "Keng Yaik is getting very excitable and irrational - a direct consequence of the fright he had in the 1990 general elections where he scraped through with 863 votes!"
date: "1994-05-16"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Penang on Monday, May 16, 1994_:

# Keng Yaik is getting very excitable and irrational - a direct consequence of the fright he had in the 1990 general elections where he scraped through with 863 votes!

Gerakan President, Datuk Dr. Lim Keng Yaik is getting very excitable and irrational - which must be a direct consequence of the fright he had in the 1990 general elections, where he scraped through with 863 votes.</u>

If not for UMNO’s Malay votes which saved his political life, Keng Yaik would not only have lost his Parliamentary seat, but his Ministerial position as well!

Keng Yaik had a ‘fright of his life’ when the votes in Bruas parliamentary constituency were counted in the 1990 general elections, and this must explain why since then, he had become even more excitable and irrational than in the past.

Malaysians will still remember that before the 1990 general elections, I openly called Keng Yaik a ‘liar’ for his lies about the DAP having a secret meeting with PAS leaders in Jakarta, inviting the Gerakan President to sue me in court for defamation. But Keng Yaik meekly and tamely accepted my open declaration that he is a ‘liar’!

At the end of January this year, Keng Yaik suggested on television that I had been bribed by Australian spies because of my quick and strong reactions to an Australian newspaper report alleging that Australian spies had bribed opposition politicians in Malaysia.

When I challenged Keng Yaik to repeat what he had said on television so that I could take him to court for defamation, there was complete silence from Keng Yaik:

A few days later, when another Australian newspaper clarified that the Australian spies had bribed UMNO politicians, and not Opposition politicians, there was also silence from Lim Keng Yaik.

It is clear that Keng Yaik dare not even utter a whisper when UMNO politicians are alleged to have been bribed by Australian spies, but are in the forefront in denouncing the DAP when unnamed opposition politicians were accused of being bribed by Australian spies.

By showing such double standards, Keng Yaik is only showing his utter lack of political principle, honesty, integrity and honour - which is most unfitting for a national political leader and Vision 2020.

Recently, Keng Yaik challenged DAPSY Chairman and DAP MP for Kota Melaka, Lim Guan Eng, to a public debate on palm oil and price increases in cooking oil, but when Guan Eng accepted the challenge, Keng Yaik again ‘chickened out’!

Last week, Keng Yaik said that Malaysia does not need an Opposition as the country’s living standards have risen since Merdeka in 1957.

When I challenge Keng Yaik to a public debate on his ridiculous statement in six towns in Malaysia, there was again complete silence from Keng Yaik.

With this type of background, and his increased excitability and irrationality, there is no need for me or for anyone in Malaysia to take Keng Yaik seriously.

Keng Yaik can say what he wants about the next general elections in Penang, about Tanjong 3 or about Tanjong Bungah – but these are the mere outbursts of his excitability and irrationality which do not deserve any serious attention from anyone.
 
