+++ 
title: "MCA and Gerakan should declare whether they endorse the stand taken by Mahathir on PAS Hudud Law"
date: "1994-03-12"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjung, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Saturday, March 12, 1934:_

# MCA and Gerakan should declare whether they endorse the stand taken by Mahathir on PAS Hudud Law

Yesterday, the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamad said that the Government would accept the Hudud Law drawn up by PAS only if the Islamic religious experts say it is really in line with Islamic teachings.</u>

Dr. Mahathir said the law drawn up by PAS are unfair and serve interests other than that stipulated by the religion. Hence, the Federal Government through the Prime Minister’s Department would select Islamic religious experts to study the Hudud Law as drawn up by PAS.

MCA and Gerakan should declare whether they endorse the stand taken by Dr. Mahathir, that the Barisan Nasional Federal Government would support and accept the Hudud Law drawn up by PAS if they are in line with Islamic teachings.

The MCA and Gerakan Ministers should also declare whether they had had expressed their support or opposition in the Cabinet before the Federal Government took this stand on the PAS Hudud Law.

If the MCA and Gerakan endorse the stand announced by Dr. Mahathir, does this mean that MCA and Gerakan Ministers would support and accept the introduction and implementation of Hudud Laws so long as UMNO is satisfied that they are in line with Islamic teachings?
 
