+++ 
title: "Malaysia should demand at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in New Zealand next month that Britain should denounce French resumption of nuclear tests"
date: "1995-10-29"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Kuala Lumpur on Sunday, October 29, 1995:_

# Malaysia should demand at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in New Zealand next month that Britain should denounce French resumption of nuclear tests

The detonation of the third French nuclear test in the South Pacific at 6 a.m. Malaysia time yesterday is further proof of French definance of international opinion and morality and must be condemned in the strongest possible terms.</u>

On Thursday, all political parties met in a historic meeting in Kuala Lumpur to protest against the French resumption of nuclear tests, and it is most regrettable that within 48 hours, the French should set off a third nuclear blast with an explosive force of 60 kilometers or 60,000 tonnes of TNT.

At the all-party protest at Putra World Trade Centre last Thursday, I had proposed to the Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed that a good follow-up to the all-party condemnation of the French nuclear tests would be for the Malaysian parliament to adopt an unanimous resolution to condemn the French nuclear tests which would set an example for other parliaments in the world to follow.

In response, Mahathir promised to consider the proposal.

The detonation of the third French nuclear test at the Muroroa atoll yesterday has made a parliamentary condemnation of the French nuclear tests even more urgent and I would urge Mahathir to agree to give priority in parliament tomorrow to debate the motion which the DAP MP for kota Melaka, Lim Guan Eng, had placed on the parliamentary order paper to condemn French nuclear tests.

Wismaputra should also summon the French Ambassador to ask him to convey to President Chirac and the French Government the outrage felt by all Malaysian political parties and the people at the continuation of French nuclear tests in the South Pacific.

Malaysia should demand at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in New Zealand next month that Britain should break its silence and denounce French resumption of nuclear tests as the British government had been conspicuously silent on the issue.

Malaysia should join forces with other Commonwealth nations to issue a strong protest in the game of Commonwealth to condemn the French nuclear tests and together with other NAM countries, get the United Nations general Assembly to censure French and to demand an immediate half to its other nuclear tests.

 
