+++ 
title: "Federal Government should give top priority to remove Bintulu Airport town centre within 24 months in view of the Tawau air disaster which should drive home the point that hundreds will die if there is an air disaster at Bintulu Airport"
date: "1995-09-15"
tags:
+++

_Speech (2) by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, at the Bintulu DAP Branch August-Moon Dinner in Bintulu on Friday, 15th September 1995 at 8 p.m._

# Federal Government should give top priority to remove Bintulu Airport town centre within 24 months in view of the Tawau air disaster which should drive home the point that hundreds will die if there is an air disaster at Bintulu Airport

The Federal Government should give top priority to remove Bintulu Airport from town centre within 24 months in view of the Tawau air disaster which should five home the point that hundreds will de if there is an air disaster at Bintulu Airport.</u>

I was shocked when I was informed a few hours ago of the MAS aircrash at Tawau Airport, which killed at least 34 people from the latest report.

I still remember that when I first visited Bintulu in 1978, I was taken aback that the Bintulu Airport is virtually at the heart of Bintulu town.

Two decades have passed and the Bintulu Airport has not been moved outside the town environs to a safer area although in all these years, the Barisan Nasional had been elected to represent Bintulu both in Parliament and the State Assembly.

I call on the Transport Minister, Datuk Dr. Ling Liong Sik to learn from the disaster of Tawau Airport aircrash, and move all airports which are sited in the heary of townships, like Bintulu, to outside the towns.

There is no reason why a new Bintulu airport cannot be constructed in less than 24 months, when the Federal Government is building a new Sepang international airport within five years.

I will give full support to the DAP MP for Bintulu, Chiew Chin Sing, to demand at the next Parliamentary meeting starting on October 16 that for the safety of the people of Bintulu, the Federal Government should decide to give top priority to shift the Bintulu airport to outside the Bintulu town.
 
