+++ 
title: "The Legal Profession Qualifying Board’s reaction to allegations of leak in the CLP examination in August this year most disappointing and unsatisfactory"
date: "1995-09-29"
tags:
+++

_by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Tanjong, Lim Kit Siang, in Petaling Jaya on Friday, September 29, 1995:_

# The Legal Profession Qualifying Board’s reaction to allegations of leak in the CLP examination in August this year most disappointing and unsatisfactory

I find the Legal Profession Qualifying Board’s reaction to allegations of leak in the Certificate of Legal Practitioners (CLP) examinations in August this year most disappointing and unsatisfactory. (Sun 28th Sept. 1995)</u>

The Legal Profession Qualifying Board CLP director, Khalid Yusoff, had said that precautions taken while setting the questions make it impossible for a leak to occur. However, he did not reveal the precautions.

If the Legal Profession Qualifying Board has found a leak-proof system to set examination questions, it could set up shop to teach this system to other examination and education boards in Malaysia as well as in other countries and make a lot of money!

Meaningless statements of this nature do not inspire public confidence and I hope that the Legal Qualifying Board will take a more serious and professional approach to its responsibilities.

Khalid had publicly admitted that the Board had received anonymous phone calls and heard rumours about leaks in the various CLP papers – but all he promised to do is to tell the Board at its meeting tomorrow that such rumours had become “a constant problem”.

Khalid has completely got the wrong end of the stick. The issue is not whether such rumours have become “a constant problem”, but whether there is basis or not on the allegation of leaks in the recent CLP examination, and why the Board had not taken them seriously as to conduct a full-scale investigation.

I will raise the issue of the allegation of leaks in the CLP examination papers in the forthcoming Parliamentary meeting, but what is even more important, is a more serious and responsible response from the Board to such allegations.
 
