+++ 
title: "DAP calls for a 20-fold increase in the development expenditures for the 460 new villages under the Third Malaysia Plan"
date: "1976-08-22"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Sectary-General and Ketua Pembangkang, Lim Kit Siang, at the Ampang DAP Branch, Kuala Lumpur, on Sunday, 22nd August 1976 at 7.30 p.m._			

# DAP calls for a 20-fold increase in the development expenditures for the 460 new villages under the Third Malaysia Plan to (i) make up for the neglect of development needs of new villages for one generation and (ii) to bring the new villages fully into the mainstream of national development								

The Third Malaysia Plan 1976-1980 provides for only $19 million for development of the 460 new villages for the next five years.

This is a paltry sum as it works out to the ridiculous figure of $10000 per new village per year.</u>

The government has for 25 years neglected the economic, social, cultural and developmental needs of the 460 new villages and the over one million new villagers.

To make up for the past generation of neglected, and to enable the 460 new villages to integrate fully into the national development main-stream, the DAP calls on the Government to provide a serious allocation of $19 million. An increase of 20 times will bring the total figure to $380 million, which will work out to only $200000 development funds for each new village each year, which is not big figure.

However, one looks at the problem, the allocation of $19 million for new village development for the next five years is most ridiculous. The Malacca SEDC alone is getting $19 million for the next five years. Surely, the government should be able to strike a proper balance of priorities.

DAP members to prepare themselves for even bigger challenges in time ahead

In the DAP’s first ten years, we have played on important role as the people’s spokesman, to voice what they feel and articulate what they fear – things which parties like UMNO, MCA, MIC, Gerakan cannot perform because they represent upper and vested interests.

The MCA is the best example. It started, and has remained, as a party of the rich for the rich. Those who want to find a way to easy richest invariably take out a membership in the MCA.

The MCA is the voice of the rich. It never speaks up for the poor and downtrodden.

This is best typified by the role of the MCA President, whi, as Labour Minister, is responsible for amending the Employment Ordinance 1955 to make it even more anti-labour.

Early last week, an MCA Senator from Malacca, called for a ban on all strikes. This is the capitalists and management class speaking – not the voice of the workers. The MCA has remained true to its role as the defender and protector of the capitalist class at the expense of the working people.

For workers, the majority of whom are weak, their only weapon to protect their own minimum labour interests is to organise themselves and to put down their tools to strike, Workers have not other weapon.  

By removing the ultimate weapon of workers, the workers would be completely defenceless and capitalists and managements, especially MCA ones, would be able to carry out their acts of exploitation without fear of any consequences.

If there is going to be a ban on strikes by workers, then there should also be a ban on the right of managements to dismiss workers. Will MCA support this double ban, which would create a balance between workers and employers?

The MCA has been trying to hide its true colours by the formation of committees such as the Peasants-Labour Bureau, but invariably, its true character reveals itself.

DAP branches and members must remain vigilant in exposing the true colours of the MCA and the other Barisan Nasional parties.

The DAP has an even move important role and will face even bigger challenges in the years ahead.

All DAP has an even move important role and will face even bigger challenges in the years ahead.

All DAP State committees and branches should organize activities to prepare DAP members to be able to perform this important role effectively.
 
