+++ 
title: "Tun Razak ‘s sacrifice and devotion to the service of the nation should be an example to all Malaysians"
date: "1976-01-27"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Ketua Pembangkang and DAP Secreatary-General in the Special Parliamentary meeting on Tuesday, 27th January 1976 on the motion of condolence on Tun Razak death._

# Tun Razak ‘s sacrifice and devotion to the service of the nation should be an example to all Malaysians.

We are gathered here today to honour the memory of one of Malaysia’s most illustrious sons, the second Prime Minister, Tun Razak, who died in London on 14th January.</u>

I first learnt of Tun Razak’s death when I was in a friend’s house in Kuching on the same night, and I felt deep sense of shock and grief.

I had on that flown to Kuching on a political visit to Sarawak, but was stopped at the Kuching Airport on the directive of the State authorities. After a day’s tussle with the State authorities and the State immigration authorities, I was allowed to spend the night in Kuching town with the directive to take the first flight out of Kuching the next months. I had intended to stay on and contest that directive, but news of the death of Tun Razak changed everything, for my first thought was to return to Kuala Lumpur to pay my last respects to a dedicated Prime Minister who had given his life to the service of the country.

At this time, even if the Sarawak State authorities had allowed me to stay, I would have taken the first flight to Kuala Lumpur.

Members of the Dewan Rakyat would not forget the last time we met Tun Razak. It was a reception which the late Tun Razak gave at his official residence at Sri Taman to members of this House on Dec.16, at the close of a long budget session. I was shocked that night by the Tun’s emaciated physical appearance, and I suggested to him that he should take rest. The late Tun Razak said he was going to do so. He left Malaysia for medical treatment a few days later, never to return alive.

The national mourning by Malaysians of all races testified to the personal reactions of Malaysians to the untimely death of the return alive.

The national mourning by Malaysians of all races testified to the personal reactions of Malaysians to the untimely death of the late Tun Razak.

His loss is not only a loss to his family, but a loss to Malaysians and to Malaysia.

Tun Razak died at a time when Malaysia is undergoing through a decisive, and probably the most erucial period, of her nationhood and where his political experience, leadership and authority could help guide Malaysia through the crisis waters. 

There were indications in his last speeches that Tun Razak was beginning to perceive the more deep-seated factors of the present Malaysian crisis of indentity, but as fate would have it, his life was out short at this point of time.

While my party I do not always see eye to eye with the late Tun and his government on political, economic and nation-building policies, my colleagues and I do not hesitate in unreservedly in paying tribute to Tun Razak as a man of integrity, honesty of purpose and great dedication who had literally worked himself to death for the sake of the country and people.

His dedication to work, even in his final months, with his body wasting away, his high sense of responsibility and love for the country will enter the national folk=lore and will be cherished and treasured by Malaysians, and should serve as a shining example for all Malaysians to emulate.

Not the least of his qualities at the helm of the nation’s affairs in his undoubted integrity of character. This was vital when the people was prepared to believe, not always without reason, about the corrupt practices and venality so many men in high political places, both at the Peferal level and the state governments.

Tun Razak will occupy a special and honoured place in Malaysian history.

On behalf of my party and the Opposition, I wish express my deepest condolence to Toh Puan Rahah and her children for the grevious loss of a good husband and father.
 
