+++ 
title: "SG's Desk - A Call for General Mobilisation"
date: "1977-08-15"
tags:
+++

Saudara-saudara and Saudari-saudari.

# A Call for General Mobilisation

The next general Elections is around the corner. It may be held as early as in six month’s time, or even sooner.

We must be prepared – not orally, via press statements, but politically and organisationally.</u>

We must also be prepared at all levels, nationally, State-wise, branches and constituencies.

There is no more time for complacency. We must inject into all our activities and communicate to our comrades and members of the public a sense of purpose – to remake Malaysia into a multi-racial democratic socialist Malaysia, to give the people of Malaysia and our children’s children an assured future unexploited by the politics of class or the politics of race.

Those who are no prepared to work must give way to others who want to work. This applies to all, regardless of position in the Party, or elective office in Parliament or State Assembly.

This will be the Third General Elections which we will be fighting. I see no reason why we should not only improve on our 1974 general elections performance, ut also better our 1969 general elections record.

It all depends on us ourselves.

THIS IS THE TIME FOR GENERAL MOBILIZATION. I CALL ON EVERY PARTY LEADER AND MEMBER TO REDEDICATE HIMSELF FROM THIS INSTANT TO WORK FEVERSHILY FOR OUR COMMON CAUSE AND TO MAKE THE NEXT GENERAL ELECTIONS POLL DAY OUR FINEST HOUR IN THE HISTORY OF THE DAP.

Party Discipline Paramount 

In facing our new test, it is imperative that the Party remain a disciplined, cohesive and united political movement. Discipline had been rather lax for quite some time, I GIVE NOTICE THAT IINDISCIPLINE OF ANY FORM, WHICH UNDERMINES PARTY SOLIDARITY AND MORALE, WILL HENCEFORTH NOT BE TOLERATED.

The DAP, if it wants to be great, must be and remain a movement of ideas and policies, and not personalities. We Experience have told us that we cannot be hostages to personalities – for that is the path to division and political sterility.

Tour of States

I have planned a tour of the various States, and the following at the dates and times when I will meet the various State Committees. The various State Committee Chairman / Secretary are requested to convene the meetings concerned : 

16.8.77		Federal Territory and Selangor State Sub-Committee 8p.m.

20.8.77		Malacca State Sub-Committee 8p.m.

21.8.77		Negri Sembilan State Sub-Committee 23  2.30p.m.

28.8.77		Perak State Sub-Committee   10 a.m.

10.9.77		Penang State Sub-Committee 8p.m.

18.9.77 		Pahang State Sub-Committee   10 a.m.

25.9.77		Johore State Sub-Committee   

Party bureaus and sub- committees

Various party bureaus and sub-committees have been formed to take charge of special areas, and more will be formed.

These bureaus and sub-committees must be functioning organisations and not come to life for a meeting when the Secretary-General suggest a meeting.

Record of appreciation

I wish to record my thanks and appreciation to Sdr. Lim Cho Hock for Acting as Secretary-General from March 28 – August 7 1977.
 
