+++ 
title: "From the SG's Desk"
date: "1977-10-10"
tags:
+++

# November 2 – One Full Year of Detention of Sdr. Chian Heng Kai and Sdr. Chan Kok Kit

In three weeks time, our comrades Sdr. Chain Heng Kai and Sdr. Chan Kok Kit would have served their full year of detention without trial, matyrs to the cause of the DAP and the people of Malaysia.

The award of the Nobel Peace Prize 1977 to Amnesty International should give us all an added boost to our determination to continue to fight for human rights for Malaysian citizens.</u>

On the occasion of the full year of detention without trial of Sdr. Chian Heng Kai and Sdr. Chan Kok Kit, the Party is publishing a small book to mark and honour their sacrifice.

On Nov. 2, the Batu Gajah DAP Branch is organising a dinner to mark the occasion, Kuala Lumpur DAP Branch or the Selangor/Federal Territory DAP State Liaison Committee should organize some function for the occasion too.

On Nov.2, al branches should send telegrams to Sdr. Chian Heng Kai and Sdr. Chan Kok Kit (one telegram for both as they are detained together), to express our support for their sacrifice. Another telegram should go to the Prime Minister demanding immediate unconditional release. Branches should inform the press of the cables after they have sent them out on Nov. 2.

State Committees should liaise with the branches on this matter to effect an impressive show of comradeship and fighting spirit on the occasion of the full year of detention without trial on Nov. 2.
 
