+++ 
title: "Challenge to Lee San Choon to declare his personal stand as a Member of the Pardons Board on the case of the 14-year-old condemned"
date: "1977-10-09"
tags:
+++

_ADDITIONAL extracts of speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader and DAP Secretary-General, Lim Kit Siang, at the Paya Terubong DAP Branch first anniversary dinner at Air Hitam, Penang, on Sunday, 9th Oct. 1977 at 8 p.m._

# Challenge to Lee San Choon to declare his personal stand as a Member of the Pardons Board on the case of the 14-year-old condemned

Without the support of the MCA Ministers and Members of Parliament, there would be no Essential (Security Cases) Amendment Regulations 1975 under the Internal Security Act, and the case of the 14-year-old Penang Form One boy condemned to death for unlawful possession of a pistol and ammunition would never occur.</u>

Even the Bangkok Post has written an editorial expressing shock at this case of a 14-year-old boy being condemned to death. The MCA, with members in the Cabinet and Government, should now declare publicly and clearly whether they are now prepared to denounce and oppose the Essential (Security Cases) Amendment Regulations 1975 which makes mandatory death sentence to be passed on a child, even if he is below 10 year old. This is an uncivilised law which has brought shame and disgrace to the name of Malaysia throughout the world since August 25, when a High Court in Penang passed the mandatory death sentence on the 14 year old boy.

xxx The MCA President, Lee San Choon, is a member of the Pardons Board, and I want Lee San Choon to make public his stand, both on the case of the death sentence passed on the 14-year-old boy, but also on the Essential (Security Cases) Regulations.

I have decided to write officially to all the affiliate member parties of the Socialist international, many of whom are ruling parties, to let them know about the case of the 14-year-old boy condemned to death, and the Essential (Security Cases) Regulations which make such death sentence mandatory on children on conviction. I will also tell them about the case of the similar offence of former Deputy Minister in Prime Minister's Department, Dato Abdullah Ahmad, who was fined $1,500 under a different Act for the similar offence of unlawful possession of Browning automatic shotgun and ammunition.

I will ask these affiliate parties of the Socialist International to express and communicate to the Malaysia Government their concern at such uncivilised and inhumance laws.

Malaysia has at international forums attacked the policies of South Africa for its apartheid and racial discrimination. Malaysia must be prepared to allow her own policies and laws to be examined and criticised by the world – for otherwise, Malaysia government leaders are not being sincere about their respect and concern for international opinion.

I call on the Malaysian Government to repeal, without any more delay, the Essential (Security Cases) Regulations 1975.

 
