+++ 
title: "DAP attacks UMNO, MCA and Gerakan and MIC leaders for diminishing the higher education opportunities of Malaysians in their own country"
date: "1977-09-11"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader and DAP Secretary-General, Lim Kit Siang, when addressing the Penang DAP Socialist Youth meeting in Penang on Sunday, 11th Sept. 1977 at 3 p.m._

# DAP attacks UMNO, MCA and Gerakan and MIC leaders for diminishing the higher education opportunities of Malaysians in their own country

One of the most divisive issue in the country today is the diminished higher education opportunities for Malaysian students – especially non-Malays.</u>

The gravity of this problem can be seen from the following student intake figures by Malaysian universities for 1977, as disclosed by the Education Minister, Dr. Mahathir bin Mohamed, in Parliament in July in reply to a question by DAP National Chairman and MP for Seremban, Dr. Chen Man Hin.

For the year 1977, a total of 25,998 students applied for degree and diploma courses in the five Malaysian universities; but only 5,953students were accepted. This means that over 20,000 Malaysian students with the requisite university entrance qualifications were denied entry into universities.

According to Dr. Mahathir, the detailed breakdown of this intake of the five Malaysian universities for 1977 were:

University                   Bumiputra                 China                   India                   Lain-lain               Jumlah 

University 
Malaya                            1,032                        766                       146                        33                    1,977

Universiti
Sains
Malaysia                             331                        258                         50                          7                      646

Universiti
Kebangsaan
Malaysia                         1,065                           49                         21                          1                   1,136

Universiti
Pertanian
Malaysia                         1,101                            62                         36                         2                    1,201

Universiti
Teknologi
Malaysia                            928                            52                          13                         -                       993
                                                                                                                                                                       
Jumlah                                                                                                                                                            
semua                             4,457                       1,187                         266                      43                    5,953
university


For the Politeknik Ungku Omar, Ipoh, there were 5,000 applications of which 597were successful; while for the Politeknik Kuantan, 751 students applied, with 120 students emplaced.

The breakdown of student intake for these two Polytechnics are as follows:

Politeknik                Bumiputra                  China                     India                    Lain-lain               Jumlah

Politeknik
Ungku Omar                   437                         142                         18                            -                         597

Politeknik
Kuantan                             99                           20                          1                             -                         120


Jumlah                             536                         162                        19                              -                        717


These figures do not include MARA Institute.

These figures tell more than any words could the diminished university and higher educational opportunities for Malaysian students – especially non-Malay students. This is a grave injustice and will become a source a great national disunity.

The DAP and all Malaysians do not begrudge Malay students being give all-possible opportunities and facilities for university and higher educational opportunities so that more Malay professionals and graduates take their place in Malaysian developmental efforts. But non-Malay parents and students have a right to expect that this will be done without depriving them of their higher educational opportunities.

UMNO, MCA, MIC and Gerakan leaders are not bothered or concerned about the adverse consequences their higher education policies have on the people’s hopes for a better life, for education is one of the most important means of upward social mobility.

UMNO, MCA, MIC and Gerakan leaders do not care, because they have the money to send their children overseas for higher educational opportunities. In fact, large numbers of UMNO, MCA, MIC and Gerakan Ministers and leaders send their children overseas not only for university education, but for primary and secondary education.

The Barisan Nasional government’s education policy is suitable for the ordinary Malaysian rakyat, but not for UMNO, MCA, MIC and Gerakan Ministers and leaders. This is downright hypocrisy and irresponsibility.

The injustice in the deprivation of non-Malay students of higher educational opportunities in their homeland must be stopped, and this can only be done, if there is a greater political consciousness among the people that it is only through the exercise of their political rights that this can be done. This is the time for Malaysians to come forwards and to give the DAP their assistance and support, so that we can help to change the Malaysian society to a more just and equal one.
 
