+++ 
title: "DAP to form branches in PJ Old Town, PJ New Town, SEA Park in Petaling Jaya to create a closer party-people relationship"
date: "1978-07-20"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Secretary-General, Member of Parliament for Petaling Lim Kit Siang, at he meeting to form the protem committee of the Petaling Jaya Old Town Branch at PJ on Thursday, 20th July 1978 at 6.30p.m._
												
# DAP to form branches in PJ Old Town, PJ New Town, SEA Park in Petaling Jaya to create a closer party-people relationship
												
This meeting, to form the protem committee of the PJ Old Town DAP Branch, marks the first step to establish more branches in Petaling Jaya to create a closer party-people relationship.

Petaling Jaya has the highest concentration of brain power, and I have no doubt that the residents of Petaling Jaya have considerable contribution to make not only in improving the quality of life in Petaling Jaya, but also to influence and shape the nation’s future.</u>

Apart from forming branches which will also provide physical contact points with the people of Petaling Jaya, I hope that there will committee of groups formed with the purpose of applying PJ brain-power to some of the pressing and urgent problems of the country.

I have no doubt that together, the Party and the people of PJ can have a useful and exciting partnership in the years ahead.

We hold our own future and the future of our children in our hands, and we cannot allow others to determine our destiny.

The high percentage of voting in PJ and the response of the people of PJ highlight the people’s awareness and consciousness of the importance of their vote. But this awareness should not be confined to polling day alone, for the period of elections. This consciousness and awareness must be translated into daily actions and commitments in terms of political activities.

The DAP opens its door to any and every Malaysian who wants to do something for the Party, for the People and for our Children. For it is only by our constant vigilance that we can protect our rights and the interests of the future generations.

I call on PJ residents who are interested to come forward to join the DAP to provide greater force and effectiveness in our crusade to make Malaysia a more just and equal society.
 
