+++ 
title: "Lim Kit Siang to seek meeting with Transport Minister, Tan Sri V. Manickavasgam, on MAS crash victims compensation and findings of crash"
date: "1978-08-04"
tags:
+++

_By Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary – General, Member of Parliament for Petaling, and Malacca State Assemblyman for Kubu, Lim Kit Siang, on 4th August 1978:_

# Lim Kit Siang to seek meeting with Transport Minister, Tan Sri V. Manickavasgam, on MAS crash victims compensation and findings of crash

I am very concerned about the delay in the payment of adequate compensation to the MAS Crash victims’ families, and the release of the findings of the causes of the MAS Beemng Crash last December in Johore.</u>

The offer which the families of the crash victims have received, ranging from $3,500 to $50,000 is a paltry figure, and must be greatly increased. The families of the crash victims had undergone great suffering and agony, and the least the Government can do is to reduce their suffering by making to their families immediate adequate compensation.

The long delay in making public government findings on the MAS crash has become a big mystery.

I am seeking a meeting with the Transport Minister, Tan Sri V. Manickavasgam, to discuss and to understand what is going on with regard to the government inquiry into the MAS crash and the question of speedy and fair settlement of compensation to the families of the crash victims.

I have asked the DAP Parliamentary spokesman on Transport, Sdr. P. Patto, MP for Menglembu, to make a study into this question; and families relatives and friends of the crash victims who have any information which can help us are invited to write or communicate with me at 77 Road 20/9, Paramount Garden, Petaling Jaya (Tel: 769554) or with Sdr. P. Patto, 106 MT Jalan Ujong Pasir, Sinn Garden, Malacca (Tel: Malacca 5244) or to Sdr. P. Patto, 452 Kg. Baru Kopisan Baru, Gopeng, Tel 988275.
 
