+++ 
title: "“Time Bombs in Malaysia” will be published in Chinese, Bahasa Malaysia and Tamil to let the people understand the political and national problems facing the country"
date: "1978-08-03"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary – General and Member of Parliament for Petaling, Lim Kit Siang, at the official launching of the DAP Petaling Jaya Old Town Branch Constituency Office on Thursday, 3rd August 1978 at 9 p.m._

# “Time Bombs in Malaysia” will be published in Chinese, Bahasa Malaysia and Tamil to let the people understand the political and national problems facing the country

In the last general elections, the first edition of 10,000 copies of ‘Time Bombs in Malaysia’ was sold out in the short space of about less than three weeks. We have now published the second edition of ‘Time Bombs in Malaysia’ which is 410 pages instead of the 350 pages of the first edition. The second edition contains a few more parliamentary speeches, more illustrations and a Special Commentary on the 1978 general elections.</u>

I am not receiving a single cent either from the first or second edition. For the second edition, we intend to use the proceeds to publish a non – partisan weekly journal of opinion, for clearly there is a vacuum in Malaysia for a regular journal of opinion which is open to all shades of opinions of views.

There has been great demand for the Time Bombs in Malaysia in other languages. We intend to produce the Time Bombs in Malaysia in Chinese, Bahasa Malaysia and Tamil, for the people to know and understand the basic issues facing the country. Democracy cann only operate successfully if the people are in possession of facts and information, and the ‘Time Bombs in Malaysia’ will at least make a great contribution in furnishing the people with the necessary information to help them make intelligent decisions about various aspects of Malaysian nation building.

DAP PJ Old Town Branch Constituency Office to be open daily to attend to problems of  the people

Today’s launching of the PJ Old Town DAP Branch Constituency Office, within a month of Polling Day, marks the DAP’s seriousness in wanting to meet our political commitments and responsibilities.

During the election period, I had thought that after the elections, I could have a little rest. I found that the contrary happened that I have become more busy in the post – election period than during the campaign itself – to the exgent that I would be away from my family in Malacca for a whole week at a stretch.

If the people of PJ have any problems, they can come to the DAP PJ Old Town Branch Constituency Office every Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 7.30p.m. to 9p.m., and every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., where we have DAP Branch officials and members who will attend to their problems. They will try to solve these problems, but if they cannot do so, they will refer the matter to me, and I will do my best to do what I can. In this connection, I wish to thank the officials of the DAP PJ Old Town Branch protem committee for their great contribution to the Party and the People of PJ.

We propose to open up such branch – cum – constituency offices in SEA Park, probably early September, and in PJ New Town, so that we can be closer to the people of PJ.
 
