+++ 
title: "DAP CEC approves establishment of protem committee for Sibu and Sarikei, and to establish protem committee for Kuching within a short period"
date: "1978-08-21"
tags:
+++

2.	# DAP CEC approves establishment of protem committee for Sibu and Sarikei, and to establish protem committee for Kuching within a short period

Ever since the general elections, the DAP has received many applications for membership from different parts of Sarawak.

The CEC yesterday approved the establishment of protem committees for the Sibu and Sarikei branches.

The protem committee for Sarikei Branch is:</u>

Chairman: Wong Khing Sieng, businessman
Vice Chairman: Dickson Bessih Ak Errin, farmer
Secretary: Chong Siew Chiang, lawyer, Council Negri Member
Asst. Sec: Leu Pak, businessman
Treasurer: Wong Hee Moi, chief clerk
Asst. Treasurer: Lei Siaw Ngee, worker
Committee:	Yiap Seng Lai, foreman
		Lu Huai Kheng, retired teacher
		Ngu hai Kuong, farmer
		Yii Kuan Ing, farmer
		Fung Wah Hui, farmer

The protem committee for Sibu Branch is:

Chairman: Wong Liong Kiong, businessman manager,
Secretary: Ling Sie Ming, executive
Asst. Sec: Tang Ling Tung, teacher
Treasurer: Lai Pung Fui, businessman
Asst. Treasurer: Ling Khai Hua, bus manager
Committee Members: 	Ling Ping Sing, clerk
			Lim Kwong Ming,clerk

The response from Kuching has been the most intense. Although we have received a proposed list for the establishment of the Kuching DAP Branch, applications for membership from Kuching has been pouring in great numbers, and the CEC has decided to take a little time before establishing the Kuching Protem Committee so that we can combine the idealism and dedication of all from Kuching who wish to see the DAP established in the Sarawak capital.

With the establishment of the two protem committees in Sibu and Sarikei, and the impending establishment of the Kuching DAP Branch, I propose to visit Kuching and Sarawak on the question of DAP’s activities in Sarawak. I will write to the Sarawak Chief Minister, Datuk Patinggi Abdul Rahman Ya’kub, informing him of my intention to visit Sarawak, probably in the early part of September, and to find out whether he has any objections to my entry into Sarawak.
 
