+++ 
title: "Lim Keng Yaik said in Sabah Yesterday that the Sabah Chinese are getting best treatment in Malaysian, and that the people should protect what they have"
date: "1978-08-20"
tags:
+++

_Lim Kit Siang replies for Lim Keng Yaik_

# Lim Keng Yaik said in Sabah Yesterday that the Sabah Chinese are getting best treatment in Malaysian, and that the people should protect what they have.

In west Malaysia, Malaysian chinese can see chinese films over T.V. twice a week but in Sabah ever since the introduction of tv, not a single time has a chinese language film been telecast over TV Sabah. Is this what Lim Keng Yaik meant by Sabah chinese getting the best deal in Malaysia?</u>

From what Lim Keng Yaik said, it is clear what type of leader is Lim Keng Yaik.

There is supposed to be no election campaigning in this week of voting in Sabah, but Lim Keng Yaik and BN leaders are going round giving election speeches.

This is, again, one law for Barisan and another law for opposition.

As Lin Keng has broken the law in making election speeches during this week of voting, I call on the Sabah attorney general and Police to arrest Lim Keng Yaik and prosecute him for committing election offences.

Lim Keng Yaik is a shame to west Malaysians. What the people of Sabah should do is by action tell Lim Keng Yaik in no uncertain term to scram back to west Malaysia.

I am shocked by the rubbish that Lim Keng Yaik is saying in Sabah.

For ashame, he alleged that the DAP opposed the establishment of diplomatic relation between Malaysia and the People’s Republic of China in 1974.

I challenge DR. Lim Keng Yaik to prove that the DAP had opposed the establishment of diplomatic relations between Malaysia and The People’s Republic of China if he can not prove it, he should resign as senitor and Perak State Assemblymen. If he could prove that DAP in 1974 opposed the estabishment of diplomatic relation between Malaysia and the People’s Republic of China, I will resign as MP for Petaling and Malacca State assemblymen for Kabu, and retire from politic.

I advise Lim Keng Yaik to be man of political integrity and morals. Just to get votes he should not say wild and irresponsible things.

Why ban on entering Sabah express the empty claim of Harris Salleh and the Berjaya Government that they want to restore democracy in Sabah.

Harris Salleh and Berjaya has proved that they are not very different from Tun Mustapha and the previous USNO Government.

Harris Salleh already want to be Tun Mustapha II, and it is all the more important that the people of Sabah should vote for the DAP and the Opposition to check abuses and misuses of power by Harris Salleh and Berjaya Government.

It is ridiculous that a Malaysian Member of Parliament cannot enter Sabah and visit his own country.

It is highly undemocratic that in this general election, Barisan National leaders like Rafidah Aziz, Shariff Ahmad, Tan Tiong Hong, Lim Keng Yaik, Senu bin Abdul Rahman, and Dato Hussen Onn can visit Sabah to help the Berjaya Party, but DAP Secretary General cannot visit Sabah to help DAP Candidates in Sandakan and Tawau.

I say this is a great shame to the Berjaya. And I ask every Berjaya Candidate especially Vincent Wong, Berjaya candidate for Sandakan, Hiew Nyuk Yung, Berjaya Candidate for Tawau and William Lye, Berjaya Candidate for Gaya, to publicly state whether they support my ban from entering Sabah.

Let them tell the voters of Sabah why they are seeking the people’s votes. Is it to endorse such unfair and undemocratic policies as to ban a Malaysian M.P. from entering Sabah?

If Vincent Wong, Hiew Nyuk Yun and William Lye oppose such ban, then they should resign as parliamentary candidates for Berjaya ---- to prove that they are man of principle.

Malaysia is becoming more and more undemocratic and unless the people demonstrate by their votes that they want a more democratic society, Sabah can easily revert to the old undemocratic system of Tun Mustapha.

Harris Salleh and the Berjaya leaders have imposed a Balak (Timber) Curtain to restrict free travel among Malaysians.

Very soon it will be easier for West Malaysians to visit Peking and Mosow than to visit Kota Kinabalu.

Let the people of Sabah decide whether this ban on my entry into Sabah is fair or unfair, in their votes tomorrow.

Harris Salleh & Berjaya leaders have boasted that the DAP will never get the support of Sabah. But Harris Salleh seemed to be freightened of even DAP shadows.

If the DAP cannot get the support of the people of Sabah, then why is Harris Salleh so freightened of me?

I will leave Sabah under protest ---- protest against the notation of all democratic laws.

This is a day of Shame for Sabah and Malaysia.

Only the people can wash away this shame by demonstrating their protest in the strongest possible manner.

I understand Lim Keng Yaik is in Sandakan making unfounded criticism against me.

Lim Keng Yaik is a coward for he knows I cannot enter Sabah and confront him in an open political debate.

Let Lim Keng Yaik declare whether he supports the ban on my entry into Sabah and whether he is prepared to condemn Harris Salleh for this ban. 

Harris Salleh the instigation of the Berjaya candidates in Sandakan Tawau and Kota Kinabalu have banned me from entering because they are afraid of my legitimate criticism of the Berjaya Government, especially on the failure of the Berjaya Government to restore Chinese language programmes over Radio Sabah, to introduce Chinese programmes over TV Sabah, over the problems created by the refugees in Sabah, the indiscriminate issues of taxi permits, and the problems of corruption in Sabah, has become so serious.

Let Lim Keng Yaik explain why he has come to Sabah to defend corruption!

Although I cannot enter Sabah, and barred physically, Harris Salleh and the Berjaya leaders and parliamentary candidates in Sandakan, Tawau and Kota Kinabalu are gravely mistaken if they think that the DAP’s ideas for a democratic, and genuinely multi – racial society, where there is greater justice and equality can be wiped out.

These ideas will grow stronger in the mind of the people of Sabah with greater repression.

I am surprised that Dato Hussen Onn has allowed Harris Salleh to so abuse his power in State immigration autonomy.

which were meant to protect Sabahans to get jobs and prevent West Malaysians from flooding the Sabah jobs market.

The State immigration autonomy is not meant to prevent freedom of travel ---- for this makes nonsense of the claim that Berjaya wants to help promote Malaysian unity.

I call on Harris Salleh to explain to the people of Sabah why he find his colleagues in Berjaya are so freightened of me.
 
