+++ 
title: "DAP appoints Sdr. Tai Sin Piow as Special Assistant to Secretary-General with effect from 1.8.1980"
date: "1980-07-27"
tags:
+++

_Speech by Parliamentary Opposition Leader, DAP Secretary-General and MP for Petaling, Lim Kit Siang, at the inaugural meeting of the DAP Political Education Committee at DAP Hqrs on Sunday, 27th July 1980 at 2.30 pm_

# DAP appoints Sdr. Tai Sin Piow as Special Assistant to Secretary-General with effect from 1.8.1980

The inauguration of the DAP Political Education Committee marks another milestone in the DAP, as henceforth, political education of party members and cadres to upgrade the political commitment of party members will be a major feature of party activities in the 1980s.</u>

The Political Education Committee, which will be headed by Sdr. Chan Tack Chan, MP for Kota Melaka and Director of Political Bureau, comprise:

	Vice Chairman: Sdr. Fadzlan Yahya
	Secretary: Sdr. Mahadevan Nair
	Members: Sdr. Seow Hung Khim
		    Sdr. Lau Dak Kee
		    Sdr. Ling Sie Ming.

The Political Education Committee will be responsible for working out a master plan for the political education of party members and cadres throughout the party.

Every State Committee will have a State Political Education Secretary to liaise with the DAP National Political Education Committee and carry out the political education programmes that are decided upon.

Apart from national seminars, like the DAP MPs and State Assemblymen Seminar to be held in Cameron Highlands on August 8, 9 and 10, a National DAP Cadres Seminar in Port Dickson will be held in December.

State and branch-level seminars, and political discussions should also be organized.

The DAP is entering into a period of ferment to work out new ideas and strategies to achieve the political objectives of the Party, and better able to meet the challenges of the Eighties.

The DAP Central Executive Committee is setting a brisk pace, and it is up to the State Committees and the various committees and bureaus to respond and match up to the expectations vested in them by the CEC.

The Party has also decided to create a new party post to in line with the party’s political offensive and activism for the Eighties.

This post is designated Special Assistant to the Secretary-General, and Sdr. Tai Sin Piaw will be appointed to this post with effect from 1.8.1980.

The DAP is entering an exciting period and I am confident that that the finest hour of the DAP is still ahead of us.
 
