+++ 
title: "More branches in Serdang State and Damansara Parliamentary constituency"
date: "1968-12-31"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Organising Secretary, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, at a tea party at Serdang Bahru DAP Branch to thank Serdang by-election workers on Tuesday, December 31, at 8 p.m._

# DAP to open more branches in Serdang State and Damansara Parliamentary constituency, including in Salak South new village, Kuchai, Puchong, in preparation for the coming general elections

Although we just missed victory in the Serdang by-election because of the splitting of votes by the Gerakan and bad weather in the evening of pooling day which stopped many workers from coming out to vote, the DAP has made an impact on the people of Serdang and the country at large.</u>

There is no doubt now that the DAP is the only movement left capable of fighting the racial, corrupt and feudal-compradore policies of the Alliance through the democratic process.

I want, personally, and on behalf of the Party Central Executive Committee, to thank all Serdang by-election workers, who have sacrificed time, energy and even livelihood, for the cause of the DAP.</u>

Our by-election workers made all these sacrifices, not because there were money, titles, positions, contracts, to be had as is the case of Alliance by-election workers, but because they had ideals and a social conscience. Our by-election workers volunteered for the campaign because they want to stop the racial discrimination, social and economic injustice, cultural and language intolerance, which the Alliance has brought to this country.

I know there are many others who have worked for the cause of a Malaysian Malaysia in their own individual ways, without coming out into the open, and I thank them all.

There is still hope for the success of a Malaysian Malaysia so long as there are Malaysian men and women who are prepared to make sacrifices for the cause of equality, to make this nation a better place to live in, for themselves and for the next generations.

This evening also mark the end of the year 1968. Let us all, pioneers of a Malaysian Malaysia, inside the DAP and outside, resolve to double our determination to make the year 1969 the year our case score victories, first in the forthcoming Salak by-election and in the general elections.

For the Serdang State and Damansara Parliamentary constituency, the DAP intends to open more branches, including in Salak South new village, Kuchai, Puchong, to prepare for the forthcoming general elections.

I thank the 5,928 voters who had voted for the DAP, and I myself, the DAP branches in the area, will always be available to help the voters of Serdang for whatever problems they have.

I also appeal to all like-minded Malaysians in Serdang and Damansara to come forward to rally round the Malaysian Malaysia banner to ensure victory for the cause of equality and social justice in the forthcoming general elections.

_
************************************
Press Statement

The DAP Candidate for Serdang, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, will head a motor-cade tomorrow to tour the constituency of Serdang to thank the voters who have voted for the DAP. The motor procession will begin at Sungei Way new village at 11.30 a.m., proceed to Kuchai, Puchong, Salak South new village, Sungei Besi, Serdang Lama and end in Serdang Bahru new village.
_ 
