+++ 
title: "Petition for clemency on death sentence"
date: "1968-07-12"
tags:
+++

The DAP Organising Secretary, Mr Lim Kit Siang, today issued the following statement:

# Malaysian national signature campaign to petition the Sultan of Johore for clemency to commute the death sentence of Johore youths convicted of resorting with Indonesians during Confrontation

The nation – wide signature campaign, announced by DAP Secretary – General , Mr Goh Hock Guan, at a press conference this morning, to petition the Sultan of Johore for clemency to commute the death sentence of eleven Johore youths convicted of resorting with Indonesians during Confrontation, will get under way in Johore and Selangor tomorrow.

Plans have also been drawn up to launch the campaign in Malacca, Negeri Sembilan, Perak and Penang during the weekend.</u>

This national signature campaign for clemency and mercy for the eleven youths is above party policies, race, religion or state. It is a plea for humanity, compassion and mercy.

We therefore call on all humane Malaysians to give every support to the signature campaign, by adding their voices to the thousands who wish to see the lives of the eleven spared.

If Malaysians turn out in large numbers to put up their signatures , the Sultan of Johore will head the aspirations and wishes of Malaysians.

We welcome the support of all parties, organizations and Malaysians to join us in this mission of mercy and humanity, which is above party policies or state politics.

In areas where we do not have branches, Malaysians who wish to take up the call are invited to contact the DAP Headquarters in Kuala Lumpur (63-D Jalan Sultan) or any DAP Branch office or advice as they how they can initiate the movement in their own towns, villages and kampongs.

In areas where we have branches, members of the public are welcome to help in making the mission a success. This is not merely a DAP effort. It is the effort of all Malaysians.
The DAP is convening a meeting of DAP Branch representatives in Selangor and Negeri Sembilan tonight (Friday) at DAP Headquarters, 63-D Jalan Sultan at 7.30 p.m., to finalise plans for the campaign.

Party leaders will be visiting different parts of the country this weekend to explain the objectives of the campaign. Dr Chen Man Hin, the Chairman, will be in Penang tomorrow.

The Party Secretary – General, Mr Goh Hock Guan, will address a meeting of all Perak DAP Members at the Ipoh DAP Branch premises on Sunday, at 11 a.m.

The Party Organising Secretary , Mr Lim Kit Siang, will speak at the Johore Bahru Branch tomorrow at 7.pm., and at Tampoi DAP Branch at 8 p.m. On Sunday, he will be at the DAP offices in Muar at 11 a.m., Malacca at 12.30 p.m., and Batu Pahat at 4 p.m.

The Party Treasurer, Dr.S.Seeveratnam, will address all DAP Branches in Negeri Sembilan at the Seremban Branch premises on Sunday at 11 a.m.

In view of the shortness of time, all DAP members are asked to attend the above meetings even if they have not received notices of meeting. Members of the public are also welcome to the above meetings.

For each state, three persons have been appointed to be responsible for the signature drive. They are: 

Johore: Daing Ibrahim bin Othman (store keeper): Johore Bahru K.Seelathasan (lawyer’s clerk) : Kluang Lee Kok Meng(writer): Muar

Malacca: Michael Doss (clerk)
              Michael Khong (businessmen)

Negri Sembilan : Mohd. Sharif bin Haji Harun (small –holder)	
                         Dr. Arjunan Soorian (medical practitioner)
                         Mr. Oon Khor Hong (business executive)

Selangor : Abdul Jamal bin Jamil (bank clerk)
                S. Kulasegeram (lawyer)
                Hor Cheok Foon( architect)

Perak : Ibrahim bin Singgah (small – holder) – Tapah
            Felix Anthony (teacher) – Sungai Siput 
            Lim Cho Hock (lawyer) 

Penang : Yap Ghim Guan (lawyer) 
              Peter Dason (lawyer)
 
