+++ 
title: "MCA’s so-called ‘anti -communist’ expert, Mr.Wu Ling Yu"
date: "1969-01-08"
tags:
+++

_Speech by DAP Organising Secretary, Mr.Lim Kit Siang, at Serdang Bahru DAP Branch ceremony to welcome new members into the Party, held at Serdang Bahru DAP Branch on Thursday, January 9, 1969 at 8p.m._

During the Serdang by-election, I disclosed that the Alliance government, without consulting or informing the citizens of Malaysia, took Malaysia into the American-Formosan sponsored world Anti-Communist League (WACL) in September last year.

One of the objective of the world Anti-Communist League was to work for the over throw of the communist regime in china, and to actively support every anti-communist measure of Chiang Kai Shek in his 20-year futile dream to regain China from Mao Tse Tung.
	
I had condemned this irresponsible action of the Alliance government and called for Malaysia’s immediate withdrawal from the World Anti-Communist League, as it is not to Malaysia’s short-term or long –term interest to get involved in and support Chiang Kai Shek’s futile dream.
	
The Alliance could not justify its arbitrary action in taking Malaysia into the World Anti-Communist League. it refused to withdraw Malaysia out of the World Anti-Communist League.  On the contrary, the MCA had already imported a so-called anti-communist expert, one Mr. Wu Ling Yu, to help the MCA train its members and master-mind the political orientation of MCA rank and file.</u>
	
Is this one concrete result of Malaysia’s  joining the World Anti-Communist? Is it the condition of membership to the League that the Alliance government must allow Malaysian youths to be indoctrinated by foreigners who are fanatically anti-Communist China?
	
We know that one of the resolutions of the World Anti-Communist League Conference in Taiwan last years was to promote the exchange of abut-Communist China experts, to ensure that League members do not waver in their declaration to give every support to Chiang Kai Shek to try to topple the communist regime in China.
	
Who is determining Malaysia’s foreign policy? Is it Formosa, the United States of America, the World Anti-Communist League, or the people of Malaysia? Malaysians have a right to know.
	
Mr. Wu Ling Yu is described as “an expert on anti-communist tactics and strategies for 20 years.” 
We know that 20 years ago, in 1949, Mr.Wu Ling Yu fled from china, where he was an adviser to the Kuomintang Military Government of Northern China, to Formosa when the Chinese communist forces threw out the corrupt, decadent and degenerate Kuomintang rule of Chiang Kai Shek.
	
This is probably Mr. Wu’s claim to expertise on communism!

There has been a deliberate MCA attempt to mislead the public about the circumstances which led to MR. Wu’s community in Malaysia.
	
The MCA claimed that Mr. Wu was touring Malaysia last month, and was contacted by Tun Tan Siew Sin, MCA President, who asked him to spearhead a psychological warfare against the communists.
	
This is patently untrue, for in early November last year, Mr. Wu was already giving talks to MCA political seminars.
	
We want to know the truth. Who brought Mr. Wu into Malaysia. When did he come to Malaysia. Who is paying for Mr. Wu’s activities. 
