+++ 
title: "Minister as director of company"
date: "1969-03-15"
tags:
+++

_Statement by DAP Organising Secretary, Mr. Lim Kit Siang, at a press conference at DAP KL Branch, 63-D Jalan Sultan, on Saturday, 15th March 1969 at 11.30a.m._

A week ago, on 8th March 1969, at a public rally at Gemas Bahru, Segamat, Johore, I asked the Prime Minister, Tunku Abdul Rahman, and the Director of Anti-Corruption Agency, Inche Harun bin Hashim, whether it was proper for a Cabinet Minister to be one and the same time a director of a private firm.

Since then, the director of the Anti-Corruption agency, Inche Harun bin Hashim, has said that the legal position was very clear and that no Cabinet Minister could be a director of a private firm.

I have called to the Registry of Company records, Mr. Khaw Khai Boh was director of Metalex (M) CO., a manufacturers’ representative for iron and steel, non- ferrous metals, construction materials, tin plates, etc. for the years 1962, 1963, and 1964.

According to the Registry of Company records, Mr. Khaw Khai Boh was director of Metalex (M) Co., a manufacturers’ representative for iron and steel, non-ferrous metals, construction materials, tin plates, etc. for the year 1962, 1963, and 1964.</u>

But in 1963, Inche Khaw Khai Boh was also a Minister without Portfolio, and in June 1964, he became a Minister for Local Government and Housing.

It would appear that when he was a Minister without Portfolio, Mr. Khaw Khai Boh was at the same time serving as a director of a private firm.

When did Mr. Khaw Khai Boh resign as a director of Metalex?

Did he continue as a director of Metalex even after he became Minister of Housing and Local Government? This is something which we will like to know.

The point I wish to make is this: Is it proper for a Minister to be one and the same time a director of private firms.
Does the Alliance Cabinet and Tunku Abdul Rahman allow its Ministers to serve as directors of private firms while serving at the same time in the Cabinet.

We also hope Tunku Abdul Rahman can tell us how many Cabinet Ministers had served as directors or in other capacities in private firms, since 1957.

It is now up to the Alliance government to give the public a satisfactory explanation. If there is no satisfactory explanation, then Mr. Khaw Khai Boh should resign or made to resign from the Cabinet.
 
